>A friend of mine has a trouble with her ears ringing.  The ringing is so lou>that she has great difficulty sleeping at night.  She says that she hasn't>had a normal night's sleep in about 6 months (she looks like it too :-()>This is making her depressed so her doctor has put her on anti-depressantsSometimes I have a problem with doctor's prescribing medicine likthis.  I of course don't know the exact situation, ananti-depressants may work, but it isn't helping the ringing at all, is it>The ringing started rather suddenly about 6 months ago.  She is quickly losin>sleep, social life and sanity over thisMine started about three years back.  Turns out I have tinnitubilateral (translation: ringing in both ears, basically ;).  If thiis what it is, she'll probably get used to it.  It would keep me uand drive me nuts too, but nowadays, I have to plug both my ears witmy fingers to check to see if they are ringing.  Usually they are, buyou get so used to it, it just gets tuned out.  Yes, this is what I'vread about it... not just from my own personal experience>Does anyone know of any treatments for this?  Any experience?  Copin>mechanisms?  Any opinions on the anti-depressant drugsMillions have it, according to my physician.  You just learn to copwith it (like I mentioned earlier) by ignoring it.  It eventuallbecomes unconsciousThe doc also said it could be caused by diet (ie: too much caffeineand stress, but I haven't changed my lifestyle much, and it just comeand goes (it is always there somewhat, but now I rarely notice it wheit really "kicks in")Also, it doesn't necessarily mean there is any hearing loss, eithecaused by it or causing it.  I had an ENT (ear/nose/throat) exam, anpassed.  In fact, my hearing is quite good considering I don't take agood of care of my hearing as I shouldHer reaction is normal.  If it is tinnitus, chances are good she'lbegin to not even notice it. This info is taken mostly from a few "experts", my own experience, ansome readings (sorry, it was a few years back and don't have anspecifics handy)J