>Hmmmm... here's one place where I really think the patient ought to take mor>responsibility for him- or herself.  There is absolutely no reason why yo>can\'t ask the pharmacist filling the prescription for the "Physicians\' Packag>Insert" for the medication when you pick it up at the pharmacy.  Make sure t>tell the pharmacist that you want the "Physicians\' Package Insert" *NOT* thIf people are going to do this, I really wish they would tell me firstI'd be happy to go over the insert (in the PDR) with them and explaieverything.  All too many patients read the insert and panic and theon the next visit sheepishly admit they were afraid to take the druand we are starting over again at square one.  Some of them probabldidn't even come back for followup because they didn't want to admithey wouldn't take the drug or thought I was trying to kill them osomething.  What people don't understand about the inserts is that thereport every adverse side effect ever reported, without substantiatinthat the drug was responsible.  The insert is a legal document to slougliability from the manufacturer to the physician if something was thappen.  If patients want to have the most useful and reliable informatioon a drug they would be so much better off getting hold of one of thAMA drug evaluation books or something similar that is much more scientificThere are very few drugs that someone hasn't reported a death from takingPatients don't realize that and don't usually appreciate the riskto themselves properly.  I\'m sure Herman is going to "go ballistic"but so be it.  Another problem is that probably most drugs have beereported to cause impotence.  Half the males who read that will falsely assumit could permanently cause them to lose sexual function and so wilrefuse to take any drug like that.  This can be a real problem foPDR readers.  There needs to be some way of providing patients wittools geared to them that allow them to get the information they needI am involved in a research project to do that, with migraine as thdomain.  It involves a computer system that will provide answers to questionabout migraine as well as the therapy prescribed for the patientFor common illnesses, such as migraine and hypertension, this may helquite a bit.  The patient could spend as much time as needed with thcomputer and this would then not burden the physician.  Clearlyphysicians in large part fail to answer all the questions patients haveas is demonstrated over and over here on the net where we get askethings that the patients should have found out from their physiciabut didn't.  Why they didn't isn't always the physician's fault eitherSometimes the patients are afraid to ask.  They won't be as afraid task the system, we hope-----------------------------------------------------------------------------Gordon Banks  N3JXP      | "Skepticism is the chastity of the intellect, angeb@cadre.dsl.pitt.edu   |  it is shameful to surrender it too soon."---------------------------------------------------------------------------