>What about Kekule's infamous derivation of the idea of benzene ring>from a daydream of snakes in the fire biting their tails?  Is thi>specific enough to count?  Certainly it turns up repeatedly in basi>phil. of sci. texts as an example of the inventive component o>hypothesizing.And has been rather thoroughly demolished as myth by Robert Scott RootBernstein.  See his book, "Discovering".  Ring structures for benzenhad been proposed before Kekule', after him, and at the same time as himThe current models do not resemble Kekule's.  Many of the predecessorof Kekule's structure resemble the modern model moreI don\'t think "extra-scientific" is a very useful phrase in a discussioof the boundaries of science, except as a proposed definiens.  Extra-rationais a better phrase.  In fact, there are quite a number of well-known caseof extra-rational considerations driving science in a useful directionFor example, Pasteur discovered that racemic acid was a mixture oenantiomers (the origin of stereochemistry) partly because he liked friend's crank theory of chemical action.  The friend was wrong, buPasteur's discovery stood.  A prior investigator (Mitscherlich), lookinat the same phenomenon, had missed a crucial detail; presumably because hlacked Pasteur's motivation to find something that distinguished racemiacid from tartaric (now we say: d-tartaric) acidAgain, Pasteur discovered the differential fermentation of enantiomer(tartaric acid again) not because of some rational conviction, but becaushe was trying to produce yeast that lived on l-tartaric acid.  His notebookcontained fantasies of becoming the "Newton of mirror-image life," whiche never admitted publicallyPerhaps the best example is the discovery that DNA carries genes.  Averstarted this work because of one of his students, and ardent Anglophiland Francophobe Canadian, defended Fred Griffiths' discoveries in miceMost of Griffiths' critics were French, which decided the issue for thstudent.  Avery told him to replicate Griffiths' work in vitro, which thstudent eventually did, whereupon Avery was convinced and started thresearch program which, in 15 or so years, produced the famous discover(Avery, MacLeod, and McCarty, JEM 1944)--Mark A. Fulk\t\t\tUniversity of RochesteComputer Science Department\tfulk@cs.rochester.ed