>|> I don\'t think "extra-scientific" is a very useful phrase in a discussio>|> of the boundaries of science, except as a proposed definiens>|> Extra-rationa>|> is a better phrase.  In fact, there are quite a number of well-known case>|> of extra-rational considerations driving science in a useful direction>Yeah, but the problem with holding up the "extra-rational" examples a>exemplars, or as refutations of well founded methodology, is that yo>run smack up against such unuseful directions as Lysenko.  Such "extra>rational" cases are curiosities -- not guides to methodologyAs has been noted before, there is the distinction between _motivationand _method_.  No experimental result should be accepted unless it idescribed in sufficient detail to be replicated, and the replicationdo indeed reproduce the result.  No theoretical argument should baccepted unless it is presented in sufficient detail to be followed, anreasonable, knowlegeable, people agree with the force of the logicBut people try experiments, and pursue arguments, for all sorts of crazreasons.  Irrational motivations are not just curiousities; they are large part of the history of scienceThere are a couple of negative points to make here1) A theory of qi could, conceivably, become accepted without direcverification of the existence of qi.  For example, quarks are an acceptepart of the standard model of physics, with no direct verification.  Whawould be needed would be a theory, based on qi, that predicted medicareality better than the alternatives.  The central theoretical claim coullie forever beyond experiment, as long as there was a sufficient body oexperimental data that the qi theory predicted better than any other(I wouldn't hold my breath waiting for the triumph of qi, thoughI don't think that there is even a coherent theory based on it, much lesa theory that explains anything at all better than modern biology.  And iis hard to imagine a qi theory that would not predict some way of rathedirectly verifying the existence of qi.2) Science has not historically progressed in any sort of rationaexperiment-data-theory sequence.  Most experiments are carried out, aninterpreted, in pre-existing theoretical frameworks.  The theoreticacontroversies of the day determine which experiments get done.  Overallthere is a huge messy affair of personal jealousies, crazy motivationspetty hatreds, and the like that determines which experiments, and whiccomputations, get done.  What keeps it going forward is the criticafunction of science: results don't count unless they can be replicatedThe whole system is a sort of mechanism for generate-and-test.  The generatpart can be totally irrational, as long as the test part works properlyPasteur could believe whatever he liked about chemical activity and crystalsbut even Mitscherlich had to agree that racemic acid crystals were handedthat when you separate them by handedness, you get two chemicals that rotatpolarized light in opposite directions; and the right-rotating version waindistinguishable from tartaric acid.  Pasteur's irrational motivation haled to a replicable, and important, resultThis is where Lysenko, creationists, etc. fail.  They have usually noeven produced coherent theories that predict much of anything.  When theitheories do predict, and are contradicted by experiment, they do noconcede the point and modify their theories; rather they try to suppresthe results (Lysenko) or try to divert attention to other evidence thethink supports their position (creationists)--Mark A. Fulk\t\t\tUniversity of RochesteComputer Science Department\tfulk@cs.rochester.ed