>What is wrong with the above observation is that it explicitly gives th>impression (and you may not in fact hold this view) that the common (perhap>even the "correct") approach for a scientist to follow is to sit aroun>having flights of fancy and scheming on the basis of his jealousies an>petty hatredsFlights of fancy, and other irrational approaches, are common.  The cruciathing is not to sit around just having fantasies; they aren't of any usunless they make you do some experiments.  I've known a lot of scientistwhose fantasies lead them on to creative work; usually they won't admiout loud what the fantasy was, prior to the consumption of a few beers(Simple example: Warren Jelinek noticed an extremely heavy band on a DNelectrophoresis gel of human ALU fragments.  He got very excited, hoping thahe'd seen some essential part of the control mechanism for eukaryotigenes.  This fantasy led him to sequence samples of the band and carry oubinding assays.  The result was a well-conserved, 400 or so bp, sequencthat occurs about 500,000 times in the human genome.  Unfortunately foWarren's fantasy, it turns out to be a transposon that is present iso many copies because it replicates itself and copies itself back intthe genome.  On the other hand, the characteristics of transposons wermuch elucidated; the necessity of a cellular reverse transcriptase warecognized; and the standard method of recognizing human DNA was createdOther species have different sets of transposons.  Fortunately for meWarren and I used to eat dinner at T.G.I. Fridays all the time.>It further at least implicitly advances the position tha>sciences goes "forward" (and it is not clear what this means given th>context in which it occurs) by generating in a completely non-rationa>and even random way a plethora of hypotheses and theories that are the>weeded out via the "critical function" of scienceI'm not sure that it's random.  But there is no known rational mechanisfor generating a rich set of interesting hypotheses.  If you are reallworking in an unknown area, it is unlikely that you will have much sensof what might or might not be true; under those circumstances, the besthing to do is just follow whatever instincts you have.  If they are wrongyou will find out soon enough; but at least, you will find out _something_If you try to do experiments at random, with no prior conceptions at alin mind, you will probably get nowhere>(Though why this critica>function should be less subject to the non-rational forces is a mysteryUnfortunately, the critical function does sometimes become hostage tnon-rational forces.  Then we get varieties of pathological scienceLysenko, Mirsky's opposition to DNA-as-gene, cold fusion, and so forth>If experimental design, hypotheses creation, and theory construction ar>subject to jealousies and petty hatreds, then this must be equally tru>of the application of any "critical function" concerning replication>This is what leads one (ala Feyerabend) to an "anything goes" view.I don't agree that this follows.  In fact, this is _exactly_ the point awhich I disagree with Feyerabend.  It is a most important part of thculture of science that one keeps one's jealousies out of the refereeinprocess.  Failures there are aplenty, but, on the whole, things work outAnother point: there are a couple of senses of the phrase ``experimentadesign''.  I'd say that the less rational part is in experimental _choice_not design.  Alexander Fleming (Proc. Royal Soc., 1922) chose to look fobacteriophage in his own mucus for strange reasons (Phage had previouslbeen found in locust diarrhea; Fleming probably thought runny bottom, runnnose, what the hell, it's worth a try.) but his method of looking for phagwas well-designed to detect anything phage-like; in fact, he found lysozyme>True, the generation part *can* be totally irrational.  But typically it i>*not*.  Anecdotes concerning instances where a hypothesis seems to hav>resulted in some way from a dream or from one's political views simpl>do not generalize well to the actual history of scienceIt is not clear to me what you mean by rational vs. irrational.  Perhapyou can give a few examples of surprising experiments that were tried oufor perfectly rational reasons, or interesting new theories that were firsadvanced from logical grounds.  The main examples I can think of are fromodern high-energy physics which is not typical of science as a whole--Mark A. Fulk\t\t\tUniversity of RochesteComputer Science Department\tfulk@cs.rochester.ed