I need advice with a situation which occurred between me and a physicawhich upset me.  I saw this doctor for a problem with recurring painHe suggested medication and a course of treatment, and told me that need to call him 7 days after I begin the medication so that he mamonitor its effectiveness, as well as my general healthI did exactly as he asked, and made the call (reaching his secretary)I explained to her that I was following up at the doctor's requestand that I was worried because the pain episodes were becoming morfrequent and the medication did not seem effectiveThe doctor called me back, and his first words were, "Whatever you wantyou'd better make it quick.  I'm very busy and don't have time to chitchat with you!"  I told him I was simply following his instructions tcall on the 7th day to status him, and that I was feeling worse.  Ithen asked if perhaps there was a better time for us to talk when hhad more time.  He responded, "Just spit it out now because no time ia good time."  (Said in a raised voice.)  I started to feel upset antried to explain quickly what was going on with my condition but mnervousness interfered with my choice of words and I kind of stuttereand then said "well, never mind" and he said he\'ll talk to varioucolleagues about other medications and he'll call me some other timeThis doctor called me that evening and said because I didn't expresmyself well, he was confused about what I wanted.  At this point was pretty upset and I told him (in an amazingly polite voice considerinhow angry I felt) that his earlier manner had hurt my feelings.  He tolme that he just doesn\'t have time to "rap with patients" and thoughthat was what I wanted.  I told him that to assume I was calling t"rap" was insulting, and said again that I was just following througon his orders.  He responded that he resented the implication that hefelt I was making that he was not interested in learning about what hipatients have to say about their condition status.  He then gave mthis apology: "I am sorry that there was a miscommunication and yomistakenly thought I was insulting.  I am not trying to insult yobut I am not that knowledgeable about pain, and I don't have a lot otime to deal with that."  He then told me to call him the next dafor further instructions on how do deal with my pain and medicationI am still upset and have not yet calledMy questions: (1) Should I continue to have this doctor manage my care(2) Since I am in pain off and on, I realize that this may cause me tbe more anxietous so am I perhaps over-reacting or overly sensitiveIf this doctor refers me to his colleague who knows more about the typof pain I have, he still wants me to status him on my condition bunow I am afraid to call him\t\t\t--Marlen