>mhollowa@ic.sunysb.edu (Michael Holloway) writes>>Here's your error.  I really do think this shows some confusion on you>>part.  (Drum roll please)  Science isn't so much the gathering of evidenc>>to support an "assertion" (read: hypothesis) as it is the gathering o>>empirical observations IN ORDER TO MAKE AN HYPOTHESIS.  What shoul>>convince you (or not) shouldn't be the final product so much as *HOW* th>>product was made.>>Here's your error. There is no observation or hypothesis that is not tainte>by theory. I have a theory, I make observations, those observations will b>made with my theory in mind.Yes, absolutely, though I'd make the observation in a more general sense oall observations are made by human beings and therefore made with varioubiases.But here your message leaves talk of hypothesis and gets back, once again,to equating the business of science with the end result, the gizmo produced>Science works very well at developing theorie>within paradigms, but is very poor at dealing with paradigm shifts. If I>develop a novel paradigm that explains homeopathy, chinese medicine, or>spontaneous combustion. If the paradigm is useful it will show me the wa>to make observations that "prove" or "disprove" itMy point isn't so much whether or not you have a novel paradigm but *how*you come about developing it>The paradigm of modern medicine is that the body can be reduced to a set o>essentially mechanical operations wherein disease is seen as malfunctions i>the machinery, essentially the old Newtonian model of the world. It seem>likely that theories based upon this paradigm do not give a complete>discription of the universe, medicine, healing etc... Indeed we now>recognize an important psychological component to healing.Perhaps you'd admit that this is an oversimplification on your part (the topiof the philosophy of science is made for them, I'm making them too) but think that it also summarizes popular misconceptions of science and thebusiness of doing science.  Biomedical research doesn't make any basicassumptions that aren't the same as any other discipline of scientifiresearch.  That is, that you make empirical observations, form an hypothesiand test it.  Modern medicine has much more to do with biochemistry than"the old Newtonian model of the world".  And I doubt that many psychologistwould appreciate being put outside this empirical "world view".  Psychologalso has more to do with biochemistry than spoon bending.>It is also important to distinguish reason from science. Science may b>reasonable, but so are many non-scientific methodologies. Aristotle reasone>that frogs came from mud by observing one hop out of a puddle.Oversimplified, of course, but a good example.  This is an empirical observation.  It was then tested, though perhaps not by Aristotle, and eventuallyfound wanting.  In the meantime, some folk willhave continued to believe in the spontaneous generation of animal life. There's nothing at all surprising about this, it's the way the gathering oknowledge works.  There are probably more than a few things in my owndiscipline of molecular biology that will be found to be totally off-baseeven idiotic, to someone in the future.  These future people won't have comto these relevations because they had suddenly gone all Zen-like and hada vision in an LSD trip.  Someone will have thought of something new andtested it.  This is the bit that people who seem to relish misrepresentinscience and research can't seem to wrap their minds around.  Science is acreative process.  What I think of as factual and good research can be totallturned on its head tommorrow by new results and theories. Again, I think it gets down to defining what you mean by "science".  I oftedon't recognize what it is that I do, and am involved in, in the way sciencis portrayed by popular media or writings of people in the humanities.  Theportray science as a collection of immutable facts, pronouncements of TRUTin big gold letters.  That's silly.  Its as though we just go into the labturn over a stone, and come up with a mechanism for transcriptional regulation.  Its much more interesting than that.  It really is a very humaprocess