This reminds me of the last Graham Kerr cooking show I saw.  Today hsmoked meat on the stovetop in a big pot!  He used a strange techniquI'd never seen beforeHe took a big pot with lid, and placed a tray in it made from aluminum foilThe tray was about the size and shape of a typical coffee-table ash traymade by crumpling a sheet of foil around the edgesIn the tray, he placed a couple spoonfuls of brown sugar, a similaquantity of brown rice (he said any rice will do), the contents of twteabags of Earl Grey tea, and a few clovesOn top of this was placed an ordinary aluminum basket-type steamer, wittwo chicken breasts in it.  The lid was put on, and the whole assemblwent on the stovetop at high heat for 10 or 12 minutesLater, he removed what looked like smoked chicken breasts.  What surpriseand concerns me are1)  No wood chips.  Where does the smoke flavor come from2)  About 5 or 10 years ago, I remember hearing that carmel colo    (obtained by caramelizing sugar -- a common coloring and flavorin    agent) had been found to be carcinogenic.  I believe they injecte    it under the skin of rats, or something.  If the results were conclusive    caramel color would not be legal in the U.S., yet it is still bein    used.  Was the initial research result found to be incorrect, or what3)  About 5 or 10 years ago, I remember Earl Grey tea being implicate    as carcinogenic, because it contains oil of bergamot (an extrac    from the skin of a type of citrus fruit).  Does anyone know whateve    happened with that story?  If it were carcinogenic, Earl Grey te    could not have it as an additive, yet it apparently continues to d    soWRT natural wood smoke (I've smoking a duck right now, as it happens)I've noticed that a heavily-smoked food item will have an unpleasant tangtaste when eaten directly out of the smoker if the smoke has only recentlstopped flowing.  I find the best taste to be had by using dry wood chipsgetting lots of smoke right up at the beginning of the cooking processthen slowly barbequing for hours and hours without adding additional wood chipsMy theory is that the unpleasant tangy molecules are low-molecular weighstuff, like terpenes, and that the smoky flavor molecules are some sorof larger molecule more similar to tar.  The long barbeque time aftethe initial intensive smoke drives off the low-molecular weight stuffjust leaving the flavor behind.  Does anyone know if my theory is correctI also remember hearing that the combustion products of fat drippinon the charcoal and burning are carcinogenic.  For that reason, and becausit covers the product with soot and some unpleasant tanginess, I only grilnon-drippy meats like prawns directly over hot coals.  I do stuff like thiduck by indirect heat.  I have a long rectangular Weber, and I put the coalat one end and the meat at the other end.  The fat drops directly on thfloor below the meat, and next time I use the barbeque I make the firin that end to burn off the fat and help ignite the coalsAnd yet another reason I've heard not to smoke or barbeque meat is thasmoked cured meat, like pork sausage and bacon, containnitrosamines, which are carcinogenic.  I'm pretty sure this claim actuallhas some standing, don't know about the othersAn amusing incident I recall was the Duncan Hines scandal, when it wadiscovered that the people who make Duncan Hines cake mix were puttina lot of ethylene dibromide (EDB) into the cake mix to suppress weevilsThis is a fumigant which is known to be carcinogenicThe guy who represented the company in the press conference defendehimself by saying that the risk from eating Duncan Hines products every dafor a year would be equal to the cancer risk from eating two charcoalbroiled steaks.  What a great analogy!  When I first heard that, mimmediate reaction was we should make that a standard unit!  One charcoabroiled steak would be equivalent to 0.5 Duncans