Subject: Re: Eugenic(Gordon Banks) writes;Probably within 50 years, a new type of eugenics will be possible.;Maybe even sooner.  We are now mapping the human genome.  We will;then start to work on manipulation of that genome.  Using geneti;engineering, we will be able to insert whatever genes we want;No breeding, no "hybrids", etc.  The ethical question is, shoul;weTwo past problems with eugenics have been1) reducing the gene pool and2) defining the status of the eugenizedInserting genes would not seem to reduce the gene pool unless the insertegenes later became transmissible to progeny. Then they may be able tcrowd out "garbage genes." This may in the future become possible. Even iit does, awareness of the need to maintain the gene pool would hopefullmean provisions will be made for saving genes that may come in handlater. Evidently the genes for sickle cell disease in equatorial Africand for diabetes in the Hopi *promoted* survival in some conditions. Wdon't really know what the future may hold for our environment. Threduced wilderness- and disease-survival capacity of our relatively inbredomesticated animals comes to mind. Vulcanism, nuclear winter, ice agemeteor impact, new microbiological threats, famine, global warming, etc.etc., are all conceivable. Therefore, having as many genes as possiblavailable is a good strategy for species survival.Of course, the status of genetically altered individuals would start ouas no different than anyone else's. But if we could mak"philosopher-kings" with great bodies and long lives, would we (or theywant to give them elevated status? We could. The Romans did it with theikings *without* the benefits of such eugenics. The race eventuallrealized and dealt with the problems which that caused, but for a whileit was a problem. Orwell introduced us to the notion of what might happeto persons genetically altered for more menial tasks. But there is nothinnew under the sun. We treated slaves the same way for millennia befor"1984."  I see no inherent problem with gene therapy which avoids at least these problems. Humans have always had trouble having the virtue and wisdom tuse any power that falls into their hands to good ends all the time. Thahasn't stopped the race as a whole yet. Many are the civilizations whichave died from inability to adapt to environmental change. However, alsmany are the civilizations which have died from the abuse of their owpower. The ones which survived have hopefully learned a lesson from thfates of others, and have survived by making better choices when theiturns cameNot that I don't think that this gene altering power couldn't wipe us ofthe face of the earth or cause endless suffering. Nuclear power or globawarming or whatever could and may still do that, too.The real issue is an issue of wisdom and virtue. I personally don't thinman has enough wisdom and virtue to pull this next challenge off anbetter than he did the for last few. We, as eugenists, may make it, an wmay not. If we don\'t, I hope there are reservoirs of "garbage" people ouin some backwater with otherwise long discarded "garbage" genes which wilpull us through.I believe that the real problem is and will probably always be the sameMan needs to accept input from the great spirit of God to overcome hilacks in the area of knowing how to use the power he has. Some men haveand I believe all men may, listen to and obey the still small voice of Goin their hearts. This is the way to begin to recieve the wisdom and virtuneeded to escape the problems consequent to poor choices. Peoples havdied out for many reasons. The societies which failed to accept enouginput from God to safely use the power they had developed have destroyethemselves, and often others in the process. It is self-evident that thones which survive today have either accepted enough input from the Spirito use their powers wisely enough to avoid or survive their own mistakethus far, or else haven't had enough power for long enough.In summary, I would say that the question of whether to use this netechnology is really an ancient one. And the answer, in some ways hard, isome ways easy, is the same ancient answer. It isn't the power, it is thSpiritSorry for the long post. Got carried awayBob (ruegg@med.unc.edu