KS> From: keith@actrix.gen.nz (Keith StewartKS>My wife has become interested through an acquaintance in Post-Polio SyndromKS>This apparently is not recognised in New Zealand and different symptons ( eKS>chest complaints) are treated separately. Does anone have any informatioI\'m not sure that this condition is "recognised" anywhere (in thsense of a disease with diagnostic criteria, clear boundariebetween it and other diseases, unique pathologic or physiologifeatures, etc), but here goes with what many neurologists agree onPost-polio syndrome patients have evidence of motor neuron diseasby clinical examination, EMG, and muscle biopsy.  The abnormalitieare mostly chronic (due to old polio) but there is evidence oongoing deterioration.  Clinically, the patients complain odeclining strength and endurance with everyday motor tasksMusculoskeletal pain is a nearly universal feature that doubtlescontributes to the impaired performance.  The examination showmuscle weakness and atrophy.  The EMG shows evidence of oldenervation with reinnervation (giant and long-duration motor uniaction potentials) *and* evidence of active denervatio(fibrillation potentials).  The biopsy also shows old denervatiowith reinnervation (fiber-type grouping) *and* evidence of activdenervation (small, angulated fibers with dense oxidative enzymstaining) - but curiously, little or no group atrophyPost-polio patients do not have ALS.  In ALS, there is clinicallevident deterioration from one month to the next.  In post-poliothe patients are remarkably stable in objective findings from onyear to the next.  Of course, there are patients who had polibefore who develop genuine ALS, but ALS is no more common amonpolio survivors than among people who never had polioThe cause of post-polio syndrome is unknown.  There is littlevidence that post-polio patients have active polio virus odestructive immunologic response to virus antigenThere is no solid evidence that patients with post-polio havanything different happening to the motor unit (anterior horn cellsmotor axons, neuromuscular junctions, and muscle fibers) thapatients with old polio who are not complaining of deteriorationBoth groups can have the same EMG and biopsy findings.  The reasofor these "acute" changes in a "chronic" disease (old polio) iunknown.  Possibly spinal motor neurons (that have reinnervated hugnumbers of muscle fibers) start shedding the load after severayearsThere are a couple of clinical features that distinguish post-polisyndrome patients from patients with old polio who dendeterioration.  The PPS patients are more likely to have had severpolio.  The PPS patients are *much* more likely to complain of painThey also tend to score higher on depression scales oneuropsychologic testsMy take on this (I'm sure some will disagree):  after recovery frosevere polio there can be abnormal loading on muscles, tendonsligaments, bones, and joints, that leads to inflammatory and/odegenerative conditions affecting these structures.  The increasinpain, superimposed on the chronic (but unchanging) weakness, leadto progressive impairment of motor performance and ADL.  I aperhaps biased by personal experience of having never seen a PPpatient who was not limited in some way by pain.  I do not believthat PPS patients have more rapid deterioration of motor units thanon-PPS patients (i.e., those with old polio of similar severity buwithout PPS complaints)-- . SLMR 2.1 . E-mail: jim.zisfein@factory.com (Jim Zisfein                                           