I can not believe the way this thread on candida(yeast) has progressedSteve Dyer and I have been exchanging words over the same topic in Sci.Med. Nutrition when he displayed his typical reserve and attacked a womenposter for being treated by a liscenced physician for a disease that didnot exist.  Calling this physician a quack was reprehensible Steve and Isee that you and some of the others are doing it here as well. Let me tell you who the quacks really are, these are the physicans who haveno idea how the human body interacts with it's environment and how thatbalance can be altered by diet and antibiotics.  These are the physicianswho dismiss their patients with difficult symptomatology and make them gofrom doctor to doctor to find relief(like Elaine in Sci. Med. Nutrition) andthen when they find one that solves their problem, the rest start yellingquack.  Could it just be professional jealousy?  I couldn't help Elaine or Jobut somebody else did.  Could they know more than Me?  No way, they must be aquack. I've been teaching a human nutrition course for Medical students for over tenyears now and guess who the most receptive students are?  Those that wereraised on farms and saw first-hand the effect of diet on the health of theirfarm animals and those students who had made a dramatic diet change prior toentering medical school(switched to the vegan diet).  Typically, this isabout 1/3 of my class of 90 students.  Those not interested in nutritioneither tune me out or just stop coming to class.  That's okay because Iknow that some of what I'm teaching is going to stick and there will be atleast a few "enlightened" physicians practicing in the U.S.  It\'s reallytoo bad that most U.S. medical schools don't cover nutrition because ifthey did, candida would not be viewed as a non-disease by so many in themedical professionIn animal husbandry, an animal is reinnoculated with "good" bacteria afterantibiotics are stopped.  Medicine has decided that since humans do nothave a ruminant stomach, no such reinnoculation with "good" bacteria isneeded after coming off a braod spectrum antibiotic.  Humans have allkinds of different organisms living in the GI system(mouth, stomach, smalland large intestine), sinuses, vagina and on the skin.  These arenonpathogenic because they do not cause disease in people unless the immunesystem is compromised.  They are also called nonpathogens because unlikethe pathogenic organisms that cause human disease, they do not producetoxins as they live out their merry existence in and on our body.  But any ofthese organisms will be considered pathogenic if it manages to take upresidence within the body.  A poor mucus membrane barrier can let thishappen and vitamin A is mainly responsible for setting up this barrierSteve got real upset with Elaine's doctor because he was using anti-fungalsand vitamin A for her GI problems.  If Steve really understoood whatvitamin A does in the body, he would not(or at least should not) be callingElaine's doctor a quackHere is a brief primer on yeast.  Yeast infections, as they are commonlycalled, are not truely caused by yeasts.  The most common organism responsiblfor this type of infection is Candida albicans or Monilia which is actually ayeast-like fungus.  An infection caused by this organism is called candidiasisCandidiasis is a very rare occurance because, like an E. Coli infection, itrequires that the host immune system be severly depressed. Candida is frequently found on the skin and all of the mucous membranes ofnormal healthy people and it rarely becomes a problem unless some predisposinfactor is present such as a high blood glucose level(diabetes) or an oralcourse of antibiotics has been used.  In diabetics, their secretions containmuch higher amounts of glucose.  Candida, unlike bacteria, is very limited init's food(fuel) selection.  Without glucose, it can not grow, it just barelysurvives.  If it gets access to a lot of glucose, it blooms and over ridesthe other organisms living with it in the sinuses, GI tract or vagina.  Indiabetics, skin lesions can also foster a good bloom site for these littlebuggers.  The bloom is usually just a minor irritant in most people butsome people do really develop a bad inflammatory process at the mucusmembrane or skin bloom site.  Whether this is an allergic like reaction tothe candida or not isn't certain.  When the bloom is in the vagina or onthe skin, it can be easliy seen and some doctors do then try to "treat" itIf it's internal, only symptoms can be used and these symptoms are prettynondiscript. Candida is kept in check in most people by the normal bacterial flora inthe sinuses, the GI tract(mouth, stomach and intestines) and in thevaginal tract which compete with it for food.  The human immune systemususally does not bother itself with these(nonpathogenic organisms) unlessthey broach the mucus membrane "barrier".  If they do, an inflammatoryresponse will be set up.  Most Americans are not getting enough vitamin Afrom their diets.  About 30% of all American's die with less Vitamin A thanthey were born with(U.S. autopsy studies).  While this low level of vitaminA does not cause pathology(blindness) it does impair the mucus membranebarrier system.  This would then be a predisposing factor for a stronginflammatory response after a candida bloom. While diabetics can suffer from a candida "bloom" the  most common cause ofthis type of bloom is the use of broad spectrum antibiotics whichknock down many different kinds of bacteria in the body and remove the maincompetition for candida as far as food is concerned.  While drugs areavailable to handle candida, many patients find that their doctor will notuse them unless there is evidence of a systemic infection.  The toxicity ofthe anti-fungal drugs does warrant some caution.  But if the GI or sinusinflammation is suspected to be candida(and recent use of a broad spectrumantibiotic is the smoking gun), then anti-fungal use should be approrpriatejust as the anti-fungal creams are an appropriate treatment for recurringvaginal yeast infections, in spite of what Mr. Steve Dyer saysBut even in patients being given the anti-fungals, the irritation caused bythe excessive candida bloom in the sinus, GI tract or the vagina tends toreturn after drug treatment is discontinued unless the underlying cause ofthe problem is addressed(lack of a "good" bacterial flora in the body and/orpoor mucus membrane barrier).  Lactobacillus acidophilus is the most effectivetherapy for candida overgrowth.  From it's name, it is an acid lovingorganism and it sets up an acidic condition were it grows.  Candida can notgrow very well in an acidic environment.  In the vagina, L. acidophilius isthe predominate bacteria(unless you are hit with broad spectrumantibiotics). In the GI system, the ano-rectal region seems to be a particularly goodreservoir for candida and the use of pantyhose by many women creates a veryfavorable environment around the rectum for transfer(through moisture andhumidity) of candida to the vaginal tract.  One of the most effctive ways tominimmize this transfer is to wear undyed cotton underwear. If the bloom occurs in the anal area, the burning, swelling, pain and evenblood discharge make many patients think that they have hemorroids.  If thebloom manages to move further up the GI tract, very diffuse symptomatologyoccurs(abdominal discomfort and blood in the stool).  This positive stoolfor occult blood is what sent Elaine to her family doctor in the firstplace.  After extensive testing, he told her that there was nothing wrongbut her gut still hurt.  On to another doctor, and so on.  Richard Kaplanhas told me throiugh e-mail that he considers occult blood tests in stoolspecimens to be a waste of time and money because of the very large number offalse positives(candida blooms guys?).  If my gut hurt me on a constantbasis, I would want it fixed.  Yes it's nice to know that I don't havecolon cancer but what then is causing my distress?  When I finally find adoctor who treats me and gets me 90% better, Steve Dyer calls him a quackCandida prefers a slightly alkaline environment while bacteriatend to prefer a slightly acidic environment.  The vagina becomes alkalineduring a woman's period and this is often when candida blooms in the vagina.Vinegar and water douches are the best way of dealing with vaginalproblems.  Many women have also gotten relief from the introduction ofLactobacillus directly into the vaginal tract(I would want to be sure ofthe purity of the product before trying this).  My wife had this vaginaproblem after going on birth control pills and searched for over a yearuntil she found a gynocologist who solved the problem rather than just writtingscripts for anti-fungal creams.  This was a woman gynocologist who had hadthe same problem(recurring vaginal yeast infections).  This M.D. did somedigging and came up with an acetic acid and L. Acidophilis douche which sheused in your office to keep it sterile.  After three treatments, sexreturned to our marraige.  I have often wondered what an M.D. with chronicGI distress or sinus problems would do about the problem that he tells hispatients is a non-existent syndromeThe nonpathogenic bacteria L. acidophilus is an acid producing bacteriawhich is the most common bacteria found in the vaginal tract of healthy women. If taken orally, it can also become a major bacteria in the gut.  Througharesol sprays, it has also been used to innoculate the sinus membranesBut before this innoculation occurs, the mucus membrane barrier systemneeds to be strengthened.  This is accomplished by vitamin A, vitamin C andsome of the B-complex vitamins.  Diet surveys repeatedly show that Americansare not getting enough B6 and folate.  These are probably the segement ofthe population that will have the greatest problem with this non-existentdisorder(candida blooms after antibiotic therapy)Some of the above material was obtained from "Natural Healing" by MarkBricklin, Published by Rodale press, as well as notes from my humannutrition course.  I will be posting a discussion of vitamin A  sometime inthe future, along with reference citings to point out the extremelyimportant role that vitamin A plays in the mucus membrane defense system inthe body and why vitamin A should be effective in dealing with candidablooms.  Another effective dietary treatment is to restrict carbohydrateintake during the treatment phase, this is especially important if the GIsystem is involved.  If candida can not get glucose, it's not going to outgrow the bacteria and you then give bacteria, which can use amino acids andfatty acids for energy, a chance to take over and keep the candida in checkonce carbohydrate is returned to the gutIf Steve and some of the other nay-sayers want to jump all over this post,fine.  I jumped all over Steve in Sci. Med. Nutrition because he verbablyaccosted a poster who was seeking advice about her doctor's use of vitaminA and anti-fungals for a candida bloom in her gut.  People seeking advicefrom newsnet should not be treated this way.  Those of us giving of ourtime and knowledge can slug it out to our heart's content.  If you savedyour venom for me Steve and left the helpless posters who are timidlyseeking help alone, I wouldn't have a problem with your behavior.Martin Banschbach, Ph.DProfessor of Biochemistry and ChairmaDepartment of Biochemistry and MicrobiologOSU College of Osteopathic Medicin1111 West 17th StTulsa, Ok. 7410"Without discourse, there is no remembering, without remembering, there isno learning, without learning, there is only ignorance"