HiI've just returned from a visit with my OB/GYN and I have a fewconcerns that maybe y'all can help me with.  I've been seeingher every 4 weeks for the past few months (I'm at week 28)and during the last 2 visits I've gained 9 to 9 1/2 pounds every4 weeks.  She said this was unacceptable over any 4 week period.As it stands I've thus far gained 26 pounds.  Also she says thatthough I'm at 28 weeks the baby's size is 27 weeks, I think shementioned 27 inches for the top of the fundus.  When I was 13weeks the baby's size was 14 weeks.  I must also add, that I hadan operation a few years ago for endometriosis and I've had noproblems with endometriosis but apparently it is causing me painin my pelvic region during the pregnancy, and I have a verydifficult time moving, and the doc has recommended I not walk ormove unless I have to. (I have a little handicapped sticker forwhen I do need to go out.)Anyway that's 1/2 of the situation the other is that almost fromthe beginning of pregnancy I was getting sick (throwing up) about2-3 times a day and mostly it was bile that was being eliminated. (I told her about this).  I know this because I wasn't eatingvery much due to the nausea and could see the 'results'.  Wellnow I only get sick about once every 1-2 weeks, and it is still bilerelated.  But in addition I had begun to feel movement near myupper right abdomen, just below the right breast, usually when Iwas lying on my right side.  It began to get worse though becauseit started to hurt when I lay on my right side, and then it hurt no matter what position I was in.  Next, I noticed that when Iate greasy or fatty foods I felt like my entire abdomen hadturned to stone, and the pain in the area got worse.  However ifI ate sauerkraut or vinegar or something to 'cut' the fat itwasn't as much of a problemSo the doctor says I have cholistatis, and that I should avoidfatty foods.  This makes sense, and because I was already awareof what seemed to me this cause and effect relationship I havebeen avoiding these foods on my own.  But I'm still able to eatfoods with Ricotta cheese for instance and other low fat foods. But doc wants me to be on a non-fat diet.  This means no meatexcept fish and chicken w/o skin (I do this anyway).  No nuts,fried food, cheese etc.  I am allowed skim milk.  She said Ishould avoid anything sweet (e.g. bananas).  Also I must onlyhave one serving of something high in carbohydrates a day (potatoes, pasta, rice)!  She said I can't even cook vegetables ina little bit of oil and that I should eat vegetables raw orsteamed.  I'm concerned because I understand you need to havesome fat in your diet to help in the digestive process.  And ifI'm not taking in fat, is she expecting the baby will take itfrom my stores?  And why this restriction on carbohydrates ifshe's concerned about fat?  I'm not clear how much of herrecommendation is based on my weight gain and how much oncholistatis, which I can't seem to find any information on.  Sheoriginally said that I should only gain 20 pounds during theentire pregnancy since I was about 20 lbs overweight when Istarted.  But my sister gained 60 lbs during her pregnancy andshe's taken it all off and hasn't had any problems.  She alsoasked if any members of my family were obese, which none of themare.  Anyway I think she is overly concerned about weight gain,and feel like I'm being 'punished' by a severe diet.  She didwant to see me again in one week so I think she the diet may betemporary for that one week.What I want to know is how reasonable is this non-fat diet?  Iwould understand if she had said low-fat diet, since I'm tryingthat anyway, even if she said really low-fat diet.  I think sheassumes I must be eating a high-fat diet, but really it is thatbecause of the endometriosis and the operation I'm not able touse the energy from the food I do eat.Any opinions, info and experiences will be appreciated.  I'mtruly going stark raving mad trying to meet this new strict dietbecause fruits and vegetables go through my system in a fewminutes and I'll end up having to eat constantly.  Thus far Idon't find any foods satisfyingThanks