I got asked in Sci. Med. Nutrition about vitamin C and oxalate productiontoxic, kidney stone formation?).  I decided to post my answer here as wellbecause of the recent question about kidney stones.  Not long after I gotinto Sci. Med. I got flamed by a medical fellow for stating that magnesiumwould prevent kidney stone formation.  I'm going to state it again hereBut the best way to prevent kidney stones from forming is to take B6supplements.  Read on to find out why(I have my asbestos suit on now guys)Vitamin C will form oxalic acid.  But large doses are needed (above 6 gramsper day)\t1. Review Article "Nutritional factors in calcium containing kidney\t   stones with particular emphasis on Vitamin C" Int. Clin. Nutr. Rev\t   5(3):110-129(1985)But glycine also forms oxalic acid(D-amino acid oxidases).  For bothglycine and vitamin C, one of the best ways to drastically reduce thisproduction is not to cut back on dietary intake of vitamin C or glycine,but to increase your intake of vitamin B6\t2. "Control of hyperoxaluria with large doses of pyridoxine in\t    patients with kidney stones" Int. Urol. Nephrol. 20(4):353-59(1988\t    200 to 500 mg of B6 each day significasntly decreased the urinary\t    excretion of oxalate over the 18 month treatment program\t3. The action of pyridoxine in primary hyperoxaluria" Clin. Sci. 3\t   :277-86(1970).  Patients receiving at least 150mg B6 each day\t   showed a significant reduction in urinary oxalate levelsFor gylcine, this effect is due to increased transaminase activity(B6 isrequired for transaminase activity) which makes less glycine available foroxidative deamination(D-amino acid oxidases).  For vitamin C, the effect isquite different.  There are different pathways for vitamin C catabolism. The pathway that leads to oxalic acid formation will usually have 17 to 40%of the ingested dose going into oxalic acid.  But this is highly variableand the vitamin C review article pointed out that unless the dose gets upto6 grams per day, not too much vitamin C gets catabolized to form oxalicacid.  At very high doses of vitamin C(above 10 grams per day), more of theextra vitamin C (more than 40% conversion) can end up as oxalic acid.  In avery early study on vitamin C and oxalic production(Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol.Med. 85:190-92(1954), intakes of 2 grams per day up to 9 grams per dayincreased the average oxalic acid excretion from 38mg per day up to 178mgper day.  Until 8 grams per day was reached, the average excreted wasincreased by only 3 to 12mg per day(2 gram dose, 4 gram dose, 8 gram doseand 9gram dose). 8 grams jumped it to 45mg over the average excretionbefore supplementation and 9 grams jumped it to 150 mg over the averagebefore supplementationB6 is required by more enzymes than any other vitamin in the body.  Thereare probably some enzymes that require vitamin B6 that we don't know aboutyet.  Vitamin C catabolism is still not completely understood but thespeculation is that this other pathway that does not form oxalic acid musthave an enzyme in it that requires B6.  Differences in B6 levels could thenexplain the very variable production of oxalic acid from a vitamin Cchallenge(this is not the preferred route of catabolism).  Increasing yourintake of B6 would then result in less oxalic acid being formmed if youtake vitamin C supplements.  Since the typical American diet is deficientin B6, some researchers believe that the main cause of calcium-oxalatekidney stones is B6 deficiency(especially since so little oxalic acid getsabsorbed from the gut).  Diets providing 0 to 130mg of oxalic acid per dayshowed absolutely no change in urinary excretion of oxalate(Urol Int.35:30-15,1980).  If 400mg was present each day, there was a significant increasein urinary oxalate excretion\tHere are the high oxalate foods\t1. Beans, coca, instant coffee, parsley, rhubarb, spinach and tea\t   Contain at least 25mg/100gram\t2. Beet tops, carrots, celery, chocolate, cumber, grapefruit, kale,\t   peanuts, pepper, sweet potatoe\t   Contain 10 to 25 mg/100gramsIf the threshold is 130mg per day, you can see that you really have a lotof latitude in food selection.  A recent N.Eng.J. Med. article also pointsout that one good way to prevent kidney stone formation is to increase yourintake of calcium which will prevent most of the dietary oxalate from beingabsorbed at all.  If you also increase your intake of B6, you shouldn'thave to worry about kidney stones at all. The RDA for B6 is 2mg per day formales and 1.6mg per day for females(directly related to protein intake)B6 can be toxic(nerve damage) if it is consumed in doses of 500mg or moreper day for an extended peroid(weeks to months). The USDA food survey done in 1986 had an average intake of 1.87 mg per dayfor males and 1.16mg per day for females living in the U.S.  Coupled withthis low intake was a high protein diet(which greatly increases the B6requirement), as well as the presence of some of the 40 different drugs thateither block B6 absorption, are metabolic antagonists of B6, or promote B6excretion in the urine.  Common ones are: birth control pills, alcoholisoniazid, penicillamine, and corticosteroids.  I tell my students tosupplement all their patients that are going to get any of the drugs thatincrease the B6 requirement.  The dose recommended for patients takingbirth control pills is 10-15mg per day and this should work for most of theother drugs that increase the B6 requirement(this would be on top of yourdietary intake of B6).  Any patient that has a history of kidney stoneformation should be given B6 supplementsOne other good way to prevent kidney stone formation is to make sure yourCa/Mg dietary ratio is 2/1.  Magnesium-oxalate is much more soluble than iscalcium-oxalate\t4. "The magnesium:calcium ratio in the concentrated urines ofpatients with calcium oxalate calculi"Invest. Urol 10:147(1972\t5. "Effect of magnesium citrate and magnesium oxide on thecrystallization of calcium in urine: changes producted by food-magnesiuminteraction"J. Urol. 143(2):248-51(1990)\t6.Review Article, "Magnesium in the physiopathology and treatmentof renal calcium stones" J. Presse Med. 161(1):25-27(1987)There are actually about three times as many articles published in themedical literature on the role of magnesium in preventing kidney stoneformation than there are for B6.  I thought that I was being pretty safe instating that magnesium would prevent kidney stone formation in an earlierpost in this news group but good old John A. in Mass. jumped all over me. Iguess that he doesn't read the medical literature.  Oh well, since kidneystones can be a real pain and a lot of people suffer from them, I thoughtI'd tell you how you can avoid the pain and stay out of the doctor's officeMartin Banschbach, Ph.DProfessor of Biochemistry and ChairmaDepartment of Biochemistry and MicrobiologOSU College of Osteopathic Medicin1111 W. 17th StreeTulsa, Ok. 7410"Without discourse, there is no remembering, without remembering, there isno learning, without learning, there is only ignorance".  From a wise manwho lived in China, many, many years ago.  I think that it still hasmeaning in today's world