>Okay, this is a long shot>My friend Robin has recurring bouts of mononucleosis-type symptoms, very >regularly.  This has been going on for a number of years.  She's seen a >number of doctors; six was the last count, I think.  Most of them have >said either "You have mono" or "You\'re full of it; there\'s nothing wrong >with you."  One has admitted to having no idea what was wrong with her, >and one has claimed that it is Epstein-Barr syndrome>Now, what she told me about EBS is that very few doctors even believe that >it exists.  (Obviously, this has been her experience.)  So, what's the >story?  Is it real?  Does the medical profession believe it to be real>Has anyone had success is treating EBS?  Or is it just something to live >with?  Thanks for your assistanceOutbreaks of a chronic-mono-like entity were originally called EBS (osome variant thereof) because most of the people with this disease haelevated levels of antibodies to the EBV virus. But not all of thedid, which prompted an official renaming of the disease to ChroniFatigue Syndrome (this renaming took place in the Annals of InternaMedicine, Jan. 1988, I believe). Now it's also called Chronic Fatiguand Immune Dysfunction Syndrome (CFIDS), since it seems clear thasome sort of immune disregulation is causing the probsAstonishly, there are still docs who tell people with massivelswollen glands, recurrent fevers and nightsweats, etc., that there'nothing wrong with them. This is not the same thing as saying that thsyndrome may have a (at least partly) psychological cause. Thdisagreement among people whose thoughts are worth considering centeron just what the cause is. No one knows, but theories includepsychological stress, some sort of virus (a retrovirus, say most -maybe one of the newly discovered herpes viruses), environmentatoxins, bacteria (and, yes, candida), genes, (and/)or some combo otheseThere's no outright cure at the moment, but different docs trdifferent things, some of which seem to helpMassive amounts of info on the condition are available these daysPost your Q to alt.med.cfs, and you will be flooded w/factsNote: There are lots of far better understood (and better treatablediseases that look like CFIDS. Make sure these get ruled-out by a goodoc