>  banschbach@vms.ocom.okstate.edu writes>>poster for being treated by a liscenced physician for a disease that did>>not exist.  Calling this physician a quack was reprehensible Steve and I>>see that you and some of the others are doing it here as well. >> Do you believe that any quacks exist?  How about quack diagnoses?  I> being a "licensed physician" enough to guarantee that someone is no> a quack, or is it just that even if a licensed physician is a quack> other people shouldn't say so?  Can you give an example of > commonly diagnosed ailment that you think is a quack diagnosis> or have we gotten to the point in civilization where we no longe> need to worry about unscrupulous "healers" taking advantage o> people> --> David RinI don\'t like the term "quack" being applied to a licensed physician DavidQuestionable conduct is more appropriately called unethical(in my opinion)I'll give you some examples\t1. Prescribing controlled substances to patients with no\t   demonstrated need(other than a drug addition) for the medication\t2. Prescribing thyroid preps for patients with normal thyroid\t   function for the purpose of quick weight loss\t3. Using laetril to treat cancer patients when such treatment has\t   been shown to be ineffective and dangerous(cyanide release) by\t   the NCIThese are errors of commission that competently trained physicians shouldnot committ but sometimes do.  There are also errors of omission(some ofwhich result in malpractice suits).  I don't think that using anti-fungalagents to try to relieve discomfort in a patient who you suspect may behaving a problem with candida(or another fungal growth) is an error ofcommission or omission.  Healers have had a long history of trying torelieve human suffering.  Some have stuck to standard, approved proceduresothers have been willing to try any reasonable treatment if there is achance that it will help the patient.  The key has to be tied to thehealer\'s oath, "I will do no harm".  But you know David that very fewtreatments involve no risk to the patient.  The job of the physician is avery difficult one when risk versus benefit has to be weighed.  Eachphysician deals with this risk/benefit paradox a little differently.  Someare very conservative while others are more agressive.  An agressiveapproach may be more costly to the patient and carry more risk but as longas the motive is improving the patient's health and not an attempt to rakein lots of money(through some of the schemes that have been uncovered inthe medicare fraud cases), I don't see the need to label these healers asquacks or even unethicalWhat do I reserve the term quack for?  Pseudo-medical professionals. These people lurk on the fringes of the health care system waiting for thefrustrated patient to fall into their lair.  Some of these individuals arereally doing a pretty good job of providing "alternative" medicine.  Butmany lack any formal training and are in the "business" simply to make afew fast bucks.   While a patient can be reasonably assured of gettingcompetent care when a liscenced physician is consulted, this alternativecare area is really a buyer's beware arena.  If you are lucky, you may findsomeone who can help you.  If you are unlucky, you can loose a lot ofmoney and develop severe disease because of the inability of these pseudomedical professional to diagnose disease(which is the fortay of theliscened physicians)I hope that this clears things up DavidMarty B