>>>I recall reading somewhere, during my youth, in some science popularizatio>>book, that whyle isotope changes don't normally affect chemistry, a consumptio>>of only heavy water would be fatal, and that seeds watered only with heav>>water do not sprout.  Does anyone know about this>>I also heard this. I always thought it might make a good eposide o>'Columbo' for someone to be poisoned with heavy water - it wouldn'>show up in any chemical testNo one else seems to know, so I'll post thisThis topic came up on sci.physics.fusion shortly after the cold-fusioflap started.  As I recall, its been done to some experimental miceThey showed various ill effects and eventually died.  The reason ithat deuterium does not have exactly the same reaction rates ahydrogen due to its extra mass (which causes lower velocity, Boltzmaconstant, mumble).  This throws various bits of body biochemistry ouof kilter, and you get sick and dieI've never heard of anyone being poisened this way, in or out of realife.  The process takes quite a while.  If anyone wants to write thibook, I would imagine you would have to1: Replace a significant fraction of the water in the body with heav   water2: Wait while normal breakdown and repair processes cause othe   molecules in the body to be synthesised using the deuteriumDuring this process the victim would gradually deteriorate aneventually die, but I imagine it would take weeks during which thpoisoner would have to ensure that a significant proportion of thwater the victim ingested was heavyYou would get such a mess of symptoms that the doctors would be botalarmed and confused.  Why should every organ in the body suddenlbegin to deteriorate?  If you can figure out how the poisoner gets thheavy water into the victim in a hospital then you could have a reastory hereCome to think of it, <2> would continue even after the heavy water wano longer being ingested, so hospitalisation might be too lateThe most detectable effect would be that the victim's body fluidwould literally be "heavy".  Water has a molecular weight of 18 anheavy water has a MW of 20.  Thus the victim's weight will increase babout 1% for every 10% of body water replaced by heavy water.  Maybthe detection occurs because some pathologist in the lab notices thathe victim's urine is strangely dense.  Is there any medical tesinvolving the specific gravity of a body fluidPaul--Paul Johnson (paj@gec-mrc.co.uk).\t    | Tel: +44 245 73331 ext 324--------------------------------------------+---------------------------------These ideas and others like them can be had | GEC-Marconi Research is nofor $0.02 each from any reputable idealist. | responsible for my opinion