SREBRENICA'S DOCTOR RECOUNTS TOWN'S LIVING HEL    By Laura Pitte    TUZLA, Bosnia, Reuter - Neret Mujanovic was a pathologiswhen he trekked through the mountains to the besieged Muslitown of Srebrenica last August    But after treating 4,000 mangled victims of Bosnia's bloodwar, he considers himself a surgeon    ``Now I'm a surgeon with great experience although I have nlicense to practice. But if I operate on a person and he livenormally that's the greatest license a surgeon could have.'    Evacuated by the U.N. this week to his home town of Tuzlathe Muslim physician gave an eyewitness medical assessment othe horrors of the year-long Serb siege of Srebrenica and thsuffering of the thousands trapped there    ``I lived through hell together with the people oSrebrenica. All those who lived through this are the greatesheroes that humanity can produce,'' he told reporters    Mujanovic, 31, had practiced for two months as an assistanat a local hospital in Tuzla, but before going to Srebrenica hhad never performed a surgical operation on his own. Now he sayhe has performed major surgery 1,396 times, relying on books foguidance, amputating arms and legs 150 times, usually withouanesthetic, delivering 350 babies and performing four cesareasections    He worked 18-to-19-hour days, slept in the hospital for thfirst 10 weeks after his arrival last Aug. 5 and treated  4,00patients    He arrived after making the trek over mountains on foot froTuzla, 60 miles northwest of Srebrenica. About 50 other peoplcarried in supplies and 350 soldiers guided and protected hithrough guerrilla terrain, he said    His worst memory was of 10 days ago when seven Serb shelllanded within one minute in an area half the size of a footbalfield, killing 36 people immediately and wounding 102. Half othe dead were women and children    The people had come out for a rare day of sunshine and thchildren were playing soccer. ``There was no warning ... thblood flowed like a river in the street,'' he said    ``There were pieces of women all around and you could nopiece them together. One woman holding her two children in hehands was lying with them on the ground dead. They had nheads.'    Before Mujanovic arrived with his supplies conditions werdeplorable, he said. Many deaths could have been prevented hathe hospital had surgical tools, facilities and medicine    The six general practitioners who had been operating beforhe arrived had even less surgical experience than he did. ``Thedidn't know the basic principles for amputating limbs.'    Once he arrived the situation improved, he said, but bmid-September he had run out of supplies    ``Bandages were washed and boiled five times ... sometimethey were falling apart in my hands,'' he said. Doctors had nanesthetic and could not give patients alcohol to numb the paibecause it increased bleeding    ``People were completely conscious during amputations anstomach operations,'' he said. Blood transfusions werimpossible because they had no facilities to test blood types    ``I felt destroyed psychologically,'' Mujanovic said    The situation improved after Dec. 4, when a convoy arrivefrom the Belgian medical group Medecins Sans Frontieres    But Mujanovic said the military predicament worsened imid-December after Bosnian Serbs began a major offensive in thregion. ``Every day we had air strikes and shellings.'    Then the hunger set in    Between mid-December and mid-March, when U.S. planes begaair dropping food, between 20 and 30 people were dying every dafrom complications associated with malnutrition, he said    ``I know for sure that the air drop operation saved thpeople from massive death by hunger and starvation,'' he said    According to Mujanovic, around 5,000 people died iSrebrenica, 1,000 of them children, during a year of siege    Mujanovic plans to return to Srebrenica in three weeks aftevisiting his wife, who is ill in Tuzla    ``They say I'm a hero,'' he said. ``There were thousands opeople standing at the sides of the road, crying and waving wheI left. And I cried too.'--Sharon Machlis GartenberFramingham, MA  USe-mail: sharon@world.std.co