>>(p.s., may I suggest - seriously - that if the doctors and wanna-be-doctors o>>the net who refuse to have an open mind on alternative treatments an>>theories, such as the "yeast theory", should create your own moderated group>Why?  Is there some reason why you feel that it shouldn't be pointed ou>in SCI.med that there is no convincing empirical evidence to support the>existence of systemic yeast syndromeI don't know the first thing about yeast infections but I am a scientistNo scientist would take your statement --- "no convincing empirical evidencto support the existence of systemic yeast syndrome" --- to tell yoanything except an absence of data on the question.  Noring has pointed outhe catch-22 that if the "crazy" theory were true, you probably couldn\'find any direct evidence of it --- that you couldn't observe those yeastibeasties with present methods even if they were there.  Noring and thfellow from Oklahoma (sorry, forgot your name) have also suggested one seof anecdotal evidence in favor based on their personal experiences --namely, that when people with certain conditions are given anti-fungalsmany of them appear to get better. So, if you have any evidence *against* the hypothesis --- for examplecontrolled double-blind studies showing that the anti-fungals don't do anbetter than sugar water --- then let's hear it.  If you don't, then what whave is anecdotal and uncontrolled evidence on one side, and abjecdisbelief on the other.  In which case, please, there is no point in yellinback and forth at each other any longer since neither side has anconvincing evidence either positive or negative. And I understand that your abject disbelief is based on the existence opeople who may get famous or make money applying the diagnosis to everythinin sight, making wild claims with no evidence, and always refusing to dcontrolled studies.  But that has absolutely no bearing on the apparentlsincere experiences of the people on the net observing anti-fungals workinon themselves and other people in certain specific cases.  There are alsquacks who sell oral superoxide dismutase, in spite of the fact that it'completely broken down in the guts, but this doesn't change the genuinscientific knowledge about the role of superoxide dismutase in fightinoxidative damage.  Same thing.  Just cause there are candida quacks, thadoesn't establish evidence against the candida hypothesis.  If there's somother reason (besides the quacks), if only anecdotal, to think it could btrue, then that is what has to be considered, that is what the net peoplhave been talking aboutBut again, there is no point in arguing about it.  There is anecdotaevidence, and there is no convincing evidence, and there are also somcandida quacks out there, I hope everyone can agree on all of that.  Thusit appears to me the main question now is whether the proponents camarshall enough anecdotal evidence in a convincing and documented enougmanner to make a good case for carrying out a good controlled double-blinstudy of antifungals (or else, forget convincing anybody else to carry outhe test, just carry it out themselves!) --- and also, whether they caadequately define the patient population or symptoms on which such a studshould be carried out to provide a fair test of the hypothesisKe--