>> My wife has requested that I poll the Sages of Usenet to see what i> known about the use of chromium in weight-control diet suppliments> She has seen multiple products advertising it and would like any kin> real information>> My first impulse was "Yuck! a metal!" but I have zero data on it>> What do you know>> --> Henry MeltonI'll tell you all that I know about chromium.  But before I do, I want toget a few things off my chest.  I just got blasted in e-mail for my kidneystone posts.  Kidney stones are primarily caused by diet, as is heartdisease and cancer.  When I give dietary advise, it is not intended toencourage people reading this news group(or Sci. Med. Nutrition where I domost of my posting) to avoid seeing a doctor.  Nothing can be further fromthe truth.  Kidney stones can be caused by tumors and this possibility has tobe ruled out.  But once it is, diet is a good way of preventing a reoccuranceSame thing with heart disease and cancer, if you suspect that you may havea problem with one of these diseases, don't use what I'm going to tell youor what you read in some book to avoid going to a doctor.  You have to goHopefully you will find a doctor who knows enough about nutrition to helpyou change your risk factors for both diseases as part of a treatmentprogram(but the odds are that you will not and that's why I'm here).  Whenmy wife detected a lump in here breast I didn't say, don't worry my vitaminE will take care of it.  Any breast lump has to be worked up by a physician,plan and simple.  If it's begnin(which most are) fine, then maybe a dietchange and supplementation will prevent further breast lumps from occuringBut let me tell you right now, if you have tried diet and supplementationand another lump returns, get your butt into the doctor's office as fast asyour little feet can carry you(better yet, have a mammography done on aregular basis, my wife kept putting her's off, both myself and hergynocologist told her she needed to have one done).  Her gynocologist evenscheduled one, but she didn't show up(too busy running the Operating Room forthe biggest Hospital in Tulsa)One more thing, I am not an orthomolecular nutritionist.  This group useshigh dose vitamins and minerals to treat all kinds of disease.  There isabsolutely no doubt in my mind that vitamins and minerals can and do havedrug actions in the body.  But you talk about flying blind, man this isreally blind treatment.  No drug could ever be used as these vitamins andminerals are being used.  I'm not saying that some of this stuff couldn'tbe right on the money, it may well be.  But my approach to nutrition is alot like that of Weinsier and Morgan, the two M.D's who wrote the newClinical Nutrition textbook.  My push is the nutrient reserves and the labtests needed to measure these reserves and then supplementation or dietchanges to get these reserves built up to where they should be to let youhandle stress.  That's where I'm coming from folks.  Blast away if you wantI'm not going to change.  Put me in your killfile if you want, I reallydon't care.  I'm averaging 8-10 e-mail messages a day from people who thinkthat I've got something important to say.  But I'm also getting hit by afew with an axe to grind.  That's lifeChromium is one of the trace elements.  It has a very limited(but veryimportant) role in the body.  It is used to form glucose tolerance facto(GTF).  GTF is made up of chromium, nicinamide(niacin), glycine, cysteineand glutamic.  Only the chromium and the niacin are needed from the diet toform GTF.  Some foods already have GTF(Liver, brewers or nutritional yeastand black pepper).  When chromium is in GTF, a pretty good absorption isseen(about 20%).  But when it is simply present as a mineral or mineralchelate(chromium picolinate) it's absorption is much lower(1 to 2%, lowestfor all the minerals).  I've been posting in Misc. Fitness and chromium hascome up there several times as a "fat burner".  Chromium is among the leasttoxic of the minerals so you could really load yourself up and not reallydo any harm.  I wouldn't do it though.  The adequate and safe range forchromium is 50 to 200ug per day.  The average American is getting about30ug per day from his/her diet.  Chromium levels decrease with age and manybelieve that adult onset diabetes is primarily a chromium deficiency.  Ican cite you several studies that have been done with glucose tolerance inType II diabetes but I'm not going to because for each positive one, therealso seems to be a negative one as well.  I'm convinced that the problem isbioavailability.  When yeast(GTF) is used, good results are obtained but whenchromium itself is used the results are usually negative.  In addition toType II diabetes, chromiuum has been examined in cardiovascular disease andglucoma, again with mixed results as far as cardiovascular disease isconcerneSince a high blood glucose level can lead to cardiovascular disease,this possible link with chromium isn't too surprising.  Glucoma is a littlemore interesting.  Muscle eye focusing activity is primarily an insulinresponsive glucose-driven metabolic function.  If this eye focusing activityis impaired(by a lack of glucose due to a poor insulin response), intraocularpressure is believed to be elevated.  In a fairly large study of 400 pts withglaucoma, the one consistent finding was a low RBC chromium. J. Am. Coll.Nutr. 10(5):536,(1991).  But this one preliminary study should not promptpeople to go out and start popping chromium supplements.  For one thing,just about every older person is going to have a low RBC chromium unlessthey have been taking chromium suppleemnts(yeast).  Since glucoma is oftenfound in older people, it's not too surprising that chromium was low in theRBC's.  If chromium supplementation could reverse glucoma, that wouldprompt some attention.  I suspect that there will be a clinical trail tocheck out this possible chromium link to glucomaYou could find out what your body chromium pool size was by either the RBCchromium test or hair analysis.  Most clinical labs are not going to run aRBC chromium.  There are plenty of labs that will do a hair and nailanalysis for you, but I wouldn't use them.  There is just too much funnybusiness going on in these unregulated labs right nowHere's Weinsier and Morgan, advise on chromium.  They do not considerchromium to be one of those minerals for which a reliable clinical test isavailable(they don't like the hair and nail analysis labs either, and theyalso recognize the RBC chromium is primarily a research test that is notroutinely available in most clinical chemistry labs).  This has to changeand as more labs run a RBC chromiuum, it will.  What then do they suggestMake a diagnosis of chromium deficiency based on a documented clinicalresponse to chromium(run a glucose tolerance test before and after chromiumsupplementation).  Once you make the diagnosis, put the patient on 200ug ofCrCl3 orally each day or 10grams of yeast per dayWhat's my advise?  Don't take chromium supplements to try to loose weigh(they just do not work that way).  If you want to take them and thenexercise, that would be great.  Do include yeast as part of your diet(mostAmericans are not getting enough chromium from their diet).  If you do havea poor glucose tolerance, ask your doctor to check your chromium status. When he or she says, "what in the world are you talking about", just say,please get a copy of Weinsier and Morgan's new Clinical Nutrition textbookand do what they say to do with patients who present with a poor glucosetolerance.  If you can't do that, I'll find a doctor who can, thank youvery muchMarty B