RobertI'm *so* glad that you posted your Biological Alchemy discussion.  I'vebeen compared to the famous Robert McElwaine by some readers of Sci. MedI didn't know how to respond since I had not seen one of your posts(justlike I haven\'t read "The Yeast Connection")Let me just start by stating that the authors of the "Cold Fusion" papers ofrecent years are now in scientific exile(I believe that one has actuallyleft the country).  Scientific fraud is rare.  I'm still not sure that if areview of the research notes of the "cold fusion scientists" actuallyproved fraud or just very shoddy experimentationYour sources do not seem to be research articles.  They are more like laytexts designed to pique human interest in a subject area(just like the foodcombining and life extension texts).  Robert, I try to keep an open mindBut some things I just can't buy(one is taking SOD orally to preventoxidative damage in the body)Your experiment, if conducted by readers of this news group, would provethat you are right(more ash after seed sprouting than before).  Unless youuse a muffle furnance and obtain a very high temperature(above 600 degreesI believe), you will get organic residue in the ash.  Even the residue incommercial incinerators contains organic residue.  I remember doing thiskind of experiment in my organic chemistry couurse in College but Icouldn't find a temperature for mineral ash formation so I'm reallyguessing at 600 degrees F, it may actually be much higher.  The point isthat no one in their home could ever get a high enough temperature toproduce *only* a mineral ash.  They also could not measure the minerals sothey could only weigh the ash and find out that you appear to be correct.Chemical reactions abound in our body, in our atmosphere, in our water andin our soil.  Are these fusion reactions?  Yes many of them do involvefusing oxygen, nitrogen and sulfur to both organics and inorganics.  Do wereally have the transformation of silicone to calcium if carbon is fused withsilicon?  Not in my book RobertSilicon is the most abundant mineral on our planet.  I've seen speculationthat man could have evolved to be a silicon based rather than a carbonbased life-form.  I like reading science fiction, as many people do.  But Iknow enough about biochemistry(and nutrition) to be able(in most cases) toseparate the fiction from the factSilicon may be one of the trace elements that turns out to be essential inhumans.  We have several grams of the stuff in our body.  What's it doingthere?  Only the Lord knows right now.  But I will tell you what I do knowabout silicon and why, as you state, it helps bone healing(and it is notbecause silicon is transformed into calcium)Almost all of the silicon in the human body is found in the connectivetissue(collagen and elastin).  There have been studies published which showthat the very high silicon content in elastin may be an important protectivefactor against atherosclerosis(the higher the silicon content in elastin,the more resistant the elastin is to a an age-related loss of elasticitywhich may play a role in the increase in blood pressure that is often seen aspart of the ageing process in humans)For bone fracture healing, the first step is a collagen matrix into whichcalcium and phosphate are pumped by osteoblasts.  A high level of siliconin the diet seems to speed up this matrix formation.  This first step in thebone healing process seems to be the hardest for some people to get goingElectriacl currents have been used in an attempt to get the matrix formingcells oriented in the right direction so that the matrix can be formed inthe gap(or gaps) between the ends of the broken bone.  A vitamin C deficienc(by slowing collagen formation as well as causing the prodcution ofdefective collagen) does slow down both bone and wound healing.  Zinc is alsoanother big player in bone and wound healing.  And so is silicon(in an undetermined role that most likely involes matrix formation and nottransformation of silicon to calcium).  For you to take this bone healingobservation and use it as proof that silicon is transformed intocalcium is an interesting little trickBut Robert, I have the same problem myself when I read the lay press(andyes even some scientific papers).  Is the explanation reasonable?  Withouta very good science knowledge base, you and most readers of this news groupare flying blind(you have to take it on faith because you don't know anybetter)If the explanation seems to make sense to me based on my knowledge base,I'm inclined to consider it(this usually means trying to find other sourcesthat come to the same conclusion).  If the idea(like a candida bloom) seemsto make sense to me, I tend to pursue it as long as any advice that I'mgoing to give isn't going to really mess somebody up.  If this makes uskindred souls Robert, then I guess I'll have to live with that labelFor the physicians who have decided to read my response to Robert'sinteresting post, I hope that you saw the segment on the pediatricneurosurgeon last night on U.S. TV.  I can't remember the network or hisname(like many nights, I was on my computer and my wife was watching TV inour Den where I have my computer setup).  This neurosurgeon takes kids withbrain tumors that everyone else has given up on and he uses"unconventionaltreatments(his own words).  He says that he has a 70% success rate.  The onecase that I heard him discussing would normally use radiation(conventionaltreatment).  He was going to go in and cut.  You guys complain about thecost of the anti-fungals.  What do you think the cost difference betweenradiation treatment and surgery is guys?I'm going to ask you guys one more time, why blast a physician who takes thechronic sinus sufferer(like Jon) and the chronic GI sufferer(like Elaineand tries to help them using unconventional treatments?  Treatments whichdo not result in death(like those that the neurosurgeon uses?).  Is itbecause candida blooms are not life-threatening while brain tumors areHow about quality of life guys?  May the candida demon never cross yoursinus cavity or gut(if it does, you may feel differently about the issue)Marty B