ewolff@ps.ic.ac.uk (Erik The Viking) writes>Hi>My wife has aquired some thyroidal (sp?) deficiency over the past yea>that gives symptoms such as needing much sleep, coldness and pronenes>to gaining weight. She has been to a doctor and taken the ordinary (?>tests and her values were regarded as low. The doctor (and my wife) ar>not very interested in starting medication as this "deactivates" th>gland, giving life-long dependency to the drug (hormone?)..>My questions are: has anyone had/heard of success in using this approach>Her values have been (slowly but) steadily sinking, any comment on th>probability of improvement? Although the doctor has told her to 'ea>normally', my wife has dieted vigorously to keep her weight as she feel>that is part of keeping an edge over the illness/condition, may thi>affect the treatment, developmentThere are several different types of Thyroid diseases which would causa hypothyroid condition (reduction in the output of the thyroid, mainlthyroxin). Except for ones caused by infections, the treatment igenerally thyroxin pills. Hypothyroid conditions caused by infectionusually disappear when the infection does...this doesn't sound like thcase with your wifeThyroxin orally does "shut down the thyroid" through a feedback looinvolving the pituitary (I believe). The pituitary "thinks" that thcorrect amount of thyroxin is being produced so it doesn't have ttell the thyroid to produce more. This process is reversable! I havHashimoto's thyroiditis (an autoimmune condition) and was on thyroxifor approx 6 mo when my endocrinologist suggested I not take the pillfor 6 wks. When I was retested for thyroxin levels, they were normalI still get tested every 6mo because the condition might reappearThe pills are safe and have very few side-affects (& those mostly abeginning of treatment). Having a baby might be a problem and would aleast require closer monitoring of hormone levelsThyroxin controls energy production which explains sleepiness, coldnessand weight gain. There is also water retention (possibly around heart)changes in vision, and coarser hair and skin among other thingsI am not a doctor, so I'm sure I mistated something, but the importanthing is that thyroid problems are usually easily corrected and if thearen't corrected can cause problems in the rest of the body. Get second opinion from a good endocrinologist and have him/her explaithings in detail to you and your wife- Eileen Baue