   Any opinions on Burzynski's antineoplastons or information about the current   status of his research would be appreciatedBurzynski's work is not too promising. None of his A-1 through A-antineoplastons have been shown to have antineoplastic effects againsexperimental cancer. The NCI conducted tests of A-2 and A-5 againsleukemia in mice, with the result that doses high enough to productoxic effects in the mice were not effective in inhibiting the growtof the tumor or killing it. (These were in 1983 and 1985Burzynski claims that A-10 is the active factor common to all of A-and A-5 (something which he has not shown, A-10 has only beeextracted from A-2. He also hasn't shown that A-1 through A-5 are actualldistinct substances). The NCI conducted a series of tests using A-1against a standard panel of tumors that included different cell linefrom tumors in the following classes: leukemia, non-small-cell ansmall-cell lung cancer, colon cancer, cancer of the central nervousystem, melanoma, ovarian cancer and renal cancer. A-10 exhibiteneither growth inhibition nor cytotoxicity at the dose levels testedIt is necessary to process A-10 since it is not soluble (Burzynski'theory requires soluble agents), but this basically hydrolizes it tPAG (which he calls AS 2.5). PAG is not an information carryinpeptide, something which Byrzynski claims is necessary foantineoplastic activity. AS 2.1 (also derived from A-10) is a 4:mixture of PA and PAG. PA (also not a peptide) can be purchased at chemical supply houses for about $0.09 a gram. A-10 is chemicallextremely similar to glutithamide and thalidomide, both of which arhabit forming and can cause peripheral neuropathy. The nasty effectof thalidomide are widely known. In spite of this similarity, A-1does not appear to have been tested for it's potential to inducteratogenicity or peripheral neuropathyMany of Burzynski's statements about the origin of his theory, earlresearch, past and present support by others for his work have beeshown to be untruesd--sdb@ssr.co