>I saw a printed up flyer that stated the person was >"licensed herbologist and iridologist>What are your opinions>How much can you tell about a person's health by looking into their eyesIts bogus.  See the sci.skeptic FAQ (I edit it)You can diagnose some things by looking at the eyes.  Glaucoma is thClassic Example, but there are probably othersIridology maps parts of the body onto the irises of the eyes.  Blooking at the patterns, striations and occasional blobs in the iriseyou are supposed to be able to diagnose illnesses all over the bodyThe two questions to ask any alternative therapist are1: How does it work2: What evidence is thereThe answer to question 1 takes a little knowledge of medicine tevaluate.  I don't know about iridology, but I've read a book oreflexology, which is a remarkably similar notion except that thorgans of the body are mapped onto the soles of the feet.  There arsupposed to be channels running down the body carrying information oenergy of some sort.  Anatomists have found no such structures(Always beware the words "channel" and "energy" in any spiel put ouby an alternative practitioner.The answer to question 2 is rather simpler.  If all they have ianecdotal evidence then forget it.  Ask for referreed papers imainstream medical journals.  Ignore any bull about the conspiracy orich doctors suppressing alternative practitioners.  Studies are donand papers are published.  Some of them are even positiveThe word "licensed" in the flyer is an interesting one.  Licensed bwhom?  For what?  It is quite possible that the herbology is real anrequires a license: you can kill someone by giving them the wronplants to eat, and many plants contain very powerful drugs (Foxglovand Willow spring to mind).  It is not clear whether the licensextends to the iridology, and I suspect that if you ask you will btold that it means "(Licensed herbologist) and iridologist"BTW, the usual term is "herbalist".  Why use a different word--Paul Johnson (paj@gec-mrc.co.uk).\t    | Tel: +44 245 73331 ext 324--------------------------------------------+---------------------------------These ideas and others like them can be had | GEC-Marconi Research is nofor $0.02 each from any reputable idealist. | responsible for my opinion