>Our 20-month son has started falling sick quite often every since h>started going to day care.  He was at home for the first year and he di>not fall sick even once.  Now it seems like he has some sort of cold o>flu pretty much once a month.  Most of the time the cold leads to an ea>infection as well, with the result that he ends up being on antibiotic>3 weeks out of 4.  I know kids in day care fall sick more often, but w>..Sounds pretty familiar.  I posted similar cries about last September wheCaroline just entered daycare.  She was two, then, and have been withcontinuous colds since until last March.  As spring approaches, her coldslowed down.  Meanwhile we grew more and more relaxed about her coldsOnly once did the doctor diagnosed an ear infection and only twice shhad antibiotics.  (The other time was due to sinus infection, and I wishethat I did not give her that awful Septra.)>Are there any studies that can help answer some of these questionsThere are the 'net studies' -- that is, if you read this newsgroup oftenthere will be a round of questions like this every month.  There mighbe formal studies like that, but bear with my not so academic experienceOkay>-- How often do kids in their first, second and third years fall sick>How often do they get colds, flus, ear infections?Gee, I bet 50/50 you'll hear cases in all these catagories> Is there any data on home care vs. day careI am pretty sure, an insulated child at home sicks less.  But, that childstill will face the world one day.>-- Does being sick "build immunity" (leading to less illness later)That's what I believe and comfort myself with.  Caroline will get morand more colds for sure before she learned not to stick her hand in otherkid's mouth nor let other kids do the same.  Cold virus mutate easilyHowever, I hope that her immune system will be stronger to fight thesdiseases, so she would be less severely affected.  Everytime she has a coldwe make sure she blow her nose frequently and give her Dorcol or Dimetappat night so she can have good rest (thanks to some suggestions from the net)That's about all the care she needs from us.  I try very hard to keep heoff antibiotics.  Twice her ped. gave me choice to decide whether she woulhave antibiotics.  I waited just long enough (3-4 days) to see that shfought the illness off.  I do understand that you don't have much choice ithe child is in pain and/or high fever.>does it make kids "weaker" (leading to more illness later), or does i>not have any long term effectIf the child doesn't rely on antibiotics to fight off the sickness everytimethen the child should be stronger>-- Does taking antibiotics on a regular basis have any negative lon>term effects>I'll leave this to expert>-- How does one tell if a child is more susceptible to illness tha>normal, and what does one do about itIf your child just entered daycare, I'm pretty sure the first 6 months will bthe hardest.  (Then, you get more used to it.  Boy, do I hate to see me typinthis sentence.  I recall when I read something like this last September, I saidto myself, 'oh, sure.'  But, I do get used to it, now.)  However, I do hearpeople say that it does get better after a year or two.  I am looking forwardto a healthier next winter.  As it gets warmer, I hope you do get some breaksoon>-- Is there any way to build immunity and resistanceEat well, sleep well.  Try not to use antibiotics if not absolutely necessaryGood luckWen-li--