>Does the "Thermoscan" instrument really work?  It is supposed to give you >fast and accurate temperature reading in the ear.  How far in the ear doe>one have to insert the instrument?  Is it worth the $100 it is currentl>selling forNo, they do not work well.  My doctor started using one recently, and thought the concept was so amazing that I bought one too. The thing works by reading the infrared emissions from the ear drumThe ear drum is hotter than the ear canal walls, so you have to pointhe thing very carefully.  This means tugging on the top of the eato straighten out the ear canal, then inserting the thing snugly, thepushing a button.  Unfortunately, there are many things that can go wrongIt is almost impossible to aim the thing correctly when you do it onyourself.  I get readings which differ from each other by up to 2 degreesand may differ from an oral thermometer by up to 2 degrees. I talked to one of the nurses in my doctor's office recently about thisand she said she didn't like them either, for same reasons.  She did givme some instruction on how to tug on my ear, and what correct insertiofeels like, but she said she thought it was impossible to do correctlon one's self.  She also said that she and other nurses had complained tthe company about inaccurate readings, and that someone from the companhad told them to take great care to clean the infrared window at the enof the probe with alcohol from time to time.  She demonstrated this prioto reading my temperature, and managed to get a reading within 0.5 degreof the oral temperature I took at home before driving to the Dr's officeI have also noticed tha some nurses click the button, then remove thprobe immediately.  This causes wrong readings.  In my experience, yohave to leave the probe in a good 1 to 2 seconds after clicking the buttoto get a good measurement.  The nurse I talked with agreed.  I suspecthat many people don't realize this, and therefore get bad readings foyet another reasonIn short, it's a great idea.  It may work for some folks, but I believit doesn't work well for a person who wants to take his own temperature