I noticed several years ago that when I took analgesics fairly regularly(motrin at the time), I seemed to get a lot of migraines.  But haforgotten about that until I started reading some of the posts hereI generally don't take NSAIDS or Tylenol for headaches, because I'vfound them to be ineffective.  However, I have two other pain sourcethat force me to take NSAIDS (currently Naprosyn).  First, is sompelvic pain that I get at the beginning of my period, and then mucworse at midcycle.  I have had surgery for endometriosis in the pas(~12 years ago), so the Drs. tell me that my pain is probably duto the endometriosis coming back.  I've tried Synarel, it reducethe pain while I took it (3 mos), but the pain returned immediatelafter I stopped.  Three doctors have suggested hysterectomy as thonly "real solution" to my problem.  Although I don\'t expect to havany more children, I don't like the idea of having my uterus anone remaining ovary removed (the first ovary was removed when I hathe surgery for endometriosis).  One of the Drs that suggesteI get a hysterectomy is an expert in laser surgery, but perhaps thinkthat type of procedure is only worthwhile on women who still plato have children.  So basically all I'm left with is toughing outhe pain.  This would be impossible without Naprosyn (or somethinsimilar - but not aspirin, that doesn't work, and Motrin gave mhorrible gastritis a few years ago, so I'm through with it).  Ifact, Naprosyn works very well at eliminating the pain if I takit regularly as I did when I had severe back pain (and pain in bothlegs) as I'll discuss in a moment.  Generally though, I wait untiI have the pain before I take the Naprosyn, but then it takeseveral hours for it reduce the pain (it's actually quite effectivat reducing the pain, it just takes quite a while).  In the meantimI'm frequently in severe painThe other pain source I have is chronic lower back pain resulting ibilateral radiculopathy.  I've had MRIs, Xrays, CT scan, and EMG(I've had 2 of them, and don't intend to ever do that again) witnerve conduction tests.  The tests have not been conclusive as twhat is causing my back and leg pain.  The MRI reports both say I havseveral bulging, degeneratig disks, and from the Xrays (and MRI, I thinkit is apparent that I have arthritis.  The reading on the CT scawas that there are two herniations (L3-L4, and L4-L5), but otherhav looked at the films and concluded that there are no herniationsThe second EMG and nerve conduction studies shows significant denervatiocompared to the first EMG.  Oh yeah, I had some other horrible testcalled something like Somatic Evoked Response which showed that th"internal nerves" are working fine.   Anyway, the bottom line is thaI sometimes have severe pain in both legs and back pain.  The back paiis there all the time, but I can live with it.  When the leg pain is thereI need some analgesic/anti-inflammatory medication to reduce the paito a level where I can work.  So I took Naprosyn regulary for 6-months (every time I tried to stop the leg pain got worse, so I'dalways resume).  Since last November I have taken it much less frequentlyand primarily for the pelvic pain.  I have been going to physicatherapy for the last 8 months (2-3 times a week).  After the first montor so, my therapist put me on pelvic traction (she had tried it earlierbut it had caused a lot of pain in my back, this time she tried it aa lower weight).  After a month or two, the pain in my legs began goinaway (but the traction aways caused discomfort in my lower back, whiccould be reduced with ultrasound and massage).  So now, I don't havnearly as much pain in my legs, in fact my therapist took me oftraction about 2 weeks agoGetting back to my original reason for this post...  Even if I can avoitaking analgesic for headaches, I really can't avoid them entirely becausI have other pain sources, that "force" me to use them (Oh, I forgoto mention that it has been suggested to me that I have back surgerybut I'm avoiding that too).  I find the migraines difficult to deal withoccassionally I have to take off work, but usually I can work, but aa reduced capacity (I'm a systems engineer and do a lot of readinand writing).  When the pelvic pain is bad, I can't concentrate muchI usually end up jumping out of my chair every few minutes, becausthe pain is so bothersome.  When the pain in my back is bad, it cacause severe burning in both legs, shooting pains in my legs, electrishock type of pain in my feet and toes, and basically when it gets baI can't really sit at all.  Then I end up spending most of my time homand in bed.  So even if the analgesics contribute to the migraines, thmigraines are more tolerable than the other pain sources.  I get a loof migraines, an average of 3 to 4 a month, which last 1-3 daysI've taken cafergot (the first time the caffiene really got to me sI reduced the dosage), but I don't like the side effects (if I takmore than two I get diahrea).  If I get a very bad headache, I wileventually take the cafergot.  My neurologist wasn't very helpful wheI told him my problems with cafergot, he said that when sumatriptabecomes available, I should try that.  I've tried several other medication(fiornal, midrin, fiornal with codeine, tegretol, and inderal) buthey either didn't work, or I couldn't tolerate them.  So what can I doMy doctor's seem to be satisfied with me just trying to tolerate thpain, which I agree with most of the time, but not when I have a lot opain.  I've had some bad experiences with surgery (my heart stoppeonce from the anesthesia - I was told that it was likely thsuccinylcholine), and I've already had surgery several timesAnyway, the point of what I'm saying is that even if analgesics can contributto migraines, some people NEED to take them to tolerate other painJanice Rathman