I may not be the world's greatest expert on chiggers (a type omite indigenous to the south), but I certainly have spent a loof time contemplating the little buggers over the past six year(since we moved to N.C.).  Here are some observations gained fropainful experience  1. Reactions to chiggers vary greatly from person to person     Some people get tiny red bites.  Others (like me) are mor     sensitive and get fairly large swollen sore-like affairs  2. Chigger bites are the gift that keeps on giving.  I swea     that these things will itch for months  3. There is a lot of folklore about chiggers.  I think most o     it is fiction.  I have tried to do research on the critters     since they have such an effect on me.  The only book I coul     find on the subject was a *single* book in UNC's specia     collections library.  I have not yet gone through what i     required to get it  4. Based on my experience and that of my family members, the ol     folk remedy of fingernail polish simply doesn't work.  I recal     reading that the theory upon which it is based (that the chigger     burrow into your skin and continue to party there) is false.       think it is more likely that the reaction is to toxins of som     sort the little pests release.  But this is speculation  5. The *best* approach is prevention.  A couple of things work well     A good insect repellent (DEET) such as Deep Woods Off liberall     applied to ankles, waistband, etc. is a good start.  There i     another preparation called "Chig Away" that is a combination o     sulfur and some kind of cream (cortisone?) that originally wa     prepared for the Army and is not commercially available.  I     the summer I put this on my ankles every morning when I ge     up on weekends since I literally can't go outside where w     live (in the country) without serious consequences.  (The     apparently don't like sulfur much at all.  You can use sulfu     as a dust on your body or clothing to repel them.  6. No amount of prevention will be *completely* successful.  Forge     the fingernail polish.  I have finally settled upon a treatmen     that involves topical application of a combination of cortison     creme (reduces the inflamation and swelling) and benzocain     (relieves the itch).  I won't tell you all the things I've tried     Nor will I tell you some of the things my wife does since thi     counts as minor surgery and is best not mentioned (I also thin     it gains nothing)  7. The swelling and itching can also be significantly relieve     by the application of hot packs, and this seems to speed recover     as wellDoctors seem not to care much about chiggers.  The urban and suburbadoctors apparently don't encounter them much.  And the rural doctorseem to regard them as a force of nature that one must endure.  suspect that anyone who could come up with a good treatment for chiggerwould make a *lot* of money--Gary H. Merrill  [Principal Systems Developer, C Compiler DevelopmentSAS Institute Inc. / SAS Campus Dr. / Cary, NC  27513 / (919) 677-800sasghm@theseus.unx.sas.com ... !mcnc!sas!sasgh