pchurch@swell.actrix.gen.nz (Pat Churchill) writes>My 14-y-o son has the usual teenage spotty chin and greasy nose.  >bought him Clearasil face wash and ointment.  I think that is probabl>enough, along with the usual good diet.  However, he is on at me t>get some product called Dalacin T, which used to be >doctor's-prescription only treatment but is not available over th>chemist's counter.  I have asked a couple of pharmacists who sa>either his acne is not severe enough for Dalacin T, or that Clearasi>is OK.  I had the odd spots as a teenager, nothing serious.  Hi>father was the same, so I don't figure his acne is going to escalat>into something disfiguring.  But I know kids are senstitive abou>their appearance.  I am wary because a neighbour's son had this wier>malady that was eventually put down to an overdose of vitamin A fro>acne treatment.  I want to help - but with appropriate treatment>My son also has some scaliness around the hairline on his scalp.  Sor>of teenage cradle cap.  Any pointers/advice on this?  We have tried >couple of anti dandruff shampoos and some of these are inclined t>make the condition worse, not better>Shall I bury the kid till he's 21 ::) No...I was one of the lucky ones. Very little acne as a teenager. didn't have any luck with clearasil. Even though my skin gets oily ireally only gets miserable pimples when it's dry.Frequent lukewarm water rinses on the face might help. Getting the scalthing under control might help (that could be as simple as submerging undethe bathwater till it's softened and washing it out). Taking a one a davitamin/mineral might help. I've heard iodine causes trouble and that it is used in fast food restaurants to sterilize equipment which might bwhere the belief that greasy foods cause acne came from. I notice greaseon my face, not immediately removed will cause acne (even from eatinmeat)Keeping hair rinse, mousse, dip, and spray off the face will help. Warwater bath soaks or cloths on the face to soften the oil in the pores wilhelp prevent blackheads. Body oil is hydrophilic, loves water and isoftens and washes off when it has a chance. That's why hair goes limp witoilyness.Becoming convinced that the best thing to do wita whitehead is leave it alone will save him days of pimple misery. Anprying of black or whiteheads can cause infections, the red spots opimples. Usually a whitehead will break naturally in a day and there won'be an infection afterwardsTell him that it's normal to have some pimples but the cosmetic industrmakes it's money off of selling people on the idea that they are aincredible defect to be hidden at any cost (even that of causing more pimples).-Jackie