-*---> The difference between a Nobel Prize level scientist and a mediocr> scientist does not lie in the quality of their empirical methodology. > It depends on the quality of their THINKING. > It really bothers me that so many graduate students seem to believe tha> they are doing science merely because they are conducting empirica> studies. ..> And I'm especially offended by Russell Turpin's repeated assertion tha> science amounts to nothing more than avoiding mistakes.  Simply avoidin> mistakes doesn't get you anywhere. I think that Lee Lady and I are talking at cross purposesAbove, Lady seems concerned with the contrast between greascience that makes big advances in our knowledge and mediocrscience that makes smaller steps.  In most of this thread, I havbeen concerned with the difference between what is science anwhat is not.Lee Lady is correct when she asserts that the difference betweeEinstein and the average post-doc physicist is the quality otheir thought.  But what is the difference between Einstein and genius who would be a great scientist but whose great thoughtare scientifically screwy?  (Some would give Velikovsky oKorzybski as examples.  If you don't like these, choose youown.)  I say it is the same as the difference between the mediocrphysicist and the mediocre proponent of qi.  Both Einstein anthe mediocre physcists have disciplined their work from thcumulative knowledge of how previous researchers went wrongBoth Velikovsky and the mediocre proponent of qi have failed tdo this. Let me approach this from a second direction.  When one is asketo review a paper for a journal or conference, there are mankinds of criticism that one can make.  One kind of criticism ithat the work is just wrong or misinformed.  Another kind ocriticism is that the work, while technically correct, is eithenot important or not interesting.  The first difference is thone that I have been pointing to.  The second difference is thone that Lee Lady seems to be discussing.> If good empirical research were done and showed that there is some meri> to homeopathic remedies, this would certainly be valuable information> But it would still not mean that homeopathy qualifies as a science.  Thi> is where you and I disagree with Turpin. I have often pointed out that for homeopathy to be consideredscientific, what is needed is a test of its theoretical claimsnot just of some of its proposed remedies.  Similarly, I suspecthat traditional Chinese medicine has many remedies that workwhat it lacks (as one example) is any experiment that tests thpresence of qi> ... In order to have science, one must have a theoretica> structure that makes sense, not a mere collection of empiricall> validated random hypothesesCertainly a "theoretical structure that makes sense" is the goalIn areas where we do not yet have this, I see nothing wrong witforming and testing smaller hypotheses.  Let's face it: we cannoalways wait for an Einstein to come along and make everythinclear for us.  Sometimes those of us who are not Einstein have tplug along and make small amounts of progress as best we can.Russel