> Keith is the only person I have ever heard of that keeps the weigh> off without any conscious effort to control eating behavior.  ... mos> of us have to diet a lot to keep from going back to morbid obesityI attribute my success to several factorsVery low fat.  Except when someone else has cooked a meal for meI only eat fruit, vegetables, and whole grain or bran cereals.  estimate I only get about 5 to 10 percent of my calories from fatVery little sugar or saltVery high fiber.  Most Americans get about 10 grams.  25 to 35 arrecommended.  I get between 50 and 150.  Sometimes 200.  (I've hearof people taking fiber pills.  It seems unlikely that pills cacontain enough fiber to make a difference.  It would be about alikely as someone getting fat by popping fat pills.  Tablets arjust too small, unless you snarf down hundreds of them daily.My "clean your plate" conditioning works *for* me.  Eating the las10% takes half my eating time, and gives satiety a chance to catcup, so I don't still feel hungry and go start eating something elseI don't eat when I'm not hungry (unless I'm sure I'll get hungrshortly, and eating won't be practical then)I bike to work, 22 miles a day, year round.  Fast.  I also bike tstores, movies, and everywhere else, as I've never owned a carI estimate this burns about 1000 calories a day.  It also helpbuild and maintain muscle mass, prevent insulin resistance (diabeteruns in my family), and increase my metabolism.  (Even so, mmetabolism is so low that when I'm at rest I'm most comfortablwith a temperature in the 90s (F), and usually wear a sweater iit drops to 80.)  Cycling also motivates me to avoid every excesounce.  (Cyclists routinely pay a premium for cycling products thaweigh slightly less than others.  But it's easier and cheaper to triweight from the rider than from the vehicle.There's no question in my mind that my metabolism is radicalldifferent from that of most people who have never been fat.  Fortunatelyit isn't different in a way that precludes excellent healthObviously, I can't swear that every obese person who does what I'vdone will have the success I did.  But I've never yet heard of one whdid try it and didn't succeed> I think all of us cycle.  One's success depends on how large th> fluctuations in the cycle are.  Some people can cycle only 5 poundsI'm sure everyone's weight cycles, whether or not they've ever been fatI usually eat extremely little salt.  When I do eat something saltymy weight can increase overnight by as much as ten pounds.  It comeoff again over a week or two--Keith Lynch, kfl@access.digex.cof p=2,3:2 s q=1 x "f f=3:2 q:f*f>p!\'q  s q=p#f" w:q p,?$x\\8+1*