[Newsgroups: m.h.a added, followups set to most appropriate groups.In <1993Apr19.205615.1013@unlv.edu> todamhyp@charles.unlv.edu (Brian MHuey) writes>I am looking for any information/supplies that will allo>do-it-yourselfers to take Krillean Pictures(It\'s "Kirlian".  "Krillean" pictures are portraits of tiny shrimp. :[...>One might extrapolate here and say that this proves that every objec>within the universe (as we know it) has its own energy signatureI think it's safe to say that anything that's not at 0 degrees Kelviwill have its own "energy signature" -- the interesting questions arwhat kind of energy, and what it signifiesI'd check places like Edmund Scientific (are they still in business?) -or I wonder if you can find ex-Soviet Union equipment for sale somewherin the relcom.* hierarchySome expansion on Kirlian photographyFrom the credulous side: [Stanway, Andrew, _Alternative Medicine: A GuidTo Natural Therapies_, ISBN 0-14-008561-0, New York: Viking Penguin, 1986p211, p188.  A not-overly critical but still useful overview of 3alternative health therapies.  ...the Russian engineer Semyon Kirlian and his wife Valentina during th  1950s.  Using alternating currents of high frequency to 'illuminate  their subjects, they photographed them.  They found that if an objec  was a good conductor (such as a metal) the picture showed only it  surface, while the pictures of poor conductors showed the inne  structure of the object even if it were optically opaque.  They foun  too that these high frequency pictures could distinguish between dea  and living objects.  Dead ones had a constant outline whilst living one  were subject to changes.  The object's life activity was also visible i  highly variable colour patterns  High frequency photography has now been practised for twenty years i  the Soviet Union but only a few people in the West have taken it u  seriously.  Professor Douglas Dean in New York and Professor Philips a  Washington University in St Louis have produced Kirlian photographs an  others have been produced in Brazil, Austria and Germany  Using Kirlian photography it is possible to show an aura around people'  fingers, notably around those of healers who are concentrating o  healing someone.  Normally, blue and white rays emanate from the finger  but, when a subject becomes angry or excited, the aura turns red an  spotty.  The Soviets are now using Kirlian photography to diagnos  diseases which cannot be diagnosed by any other method.  They argue tha  in most illnesses there is a preclinical stage during which the perso  isn't actually ill but is about to be.  They claim to be able t  foretell a disease by photographing its preclinical phase  But the most exciting phenomenon illustrated by Kirlian photography i  the phantom effect.  During high frequency photography of a leaf fro  which a part had been cut, the photograph gave a complete picture of th  leaf with the removed part showing up faintly.  This is extremel  important because it backs up the experiences of psychics who can 'see  the legs of amputees as if they were still there.  The important thin  about the Kirlian phantoms though is that the electromagnetic patter  can't possibly represent a secondary phenomenon -- or the field woul  vanish when the piece of leaf or leg vanished.  The energy gri  contained in a living object must therefore be far more significant tha  the actual object itself  [...  Kirlian photography has shown how water mentally 'charged' by a heale  has a much richer energy field around it than ordinary water..From the incredulous side: [MacRobert, Alan, "Reality shopping; consumer\'s guide to new age hokum.", _Whole Earth Review_, Autumn 1986vNON4 p4(11).  An excellent article providing common-sense guidelines foevaluating paranormal claims, and some of the author's favorite exampleof hokum.  The crank usually works in isolation from everyone else in his field o  study, making grand discoveries in his basement.  Many paranorma  movements can be traced back to such people -- Kirlian photography, fo  instance.  If you pump high-voltage electricity into anything it wil  emit glowing sparks, common knowledge to electrical workers an  hobbyists for a century.  It took a lone basement crank to declare tha  the sparks represent some sort of spiritual aura.  In fact, Kirlia  photography was subjected to rigorous testing by physicists John O  Pehek, Harry J. Kyler, and David L. Faust, who reported their finding  in the October 15, 1976, issue of Science.  Their conclusion: Th  variations observed in Kirlian photographs are due solely to moisture o  the surface of the body and not to mysterious "auras" or eve  necessarily to changes in mood or mental state.  Nevertheless  television shows, magazines, and books (many by famou  parapsychologists) continue to promote Kirlian photography as proof o  the unknown--Peter Kaminskkaminski@netcom.co