>I've seen people in their forties and fifties become disoriented an>demented during hospital stays. In the examples I've seen, drugs wer>definitely involved.>>My own father turned into a vegetable for a short time while in th>hospital. He was fifty-three at the time, and he was on 21 separat>drugs..No wonder he became confused!  With so many drugs, it is almost impossiblto know which one is causing the problem.  And because some drugspotentiate the effect of each other, they can make the side effectall the worse, and even dangerous.  (kinda like mixing alcohol andantihistamines!>...he was disoriened [the doctors thougt ] they should put him on somethin>else as wellUnfortunately, doctors prescribe drugs to treat the side effects othe drugs a patient is receiving.  If one drug they are taking causethe patient's blood pressure to go up, many times an antihypertensivis prescribed instead of re-evaluating the need for the original drugThis is why many older adults are trying to take a dozen or so drugat home!!!>....procure a list of the drugs your grandmother is getting, and discus>it with an independent doc. Her problems may not be the effect of HALDO>at all. HALDOL may have been used validly, or it may have bee>prescribed because OTHER medication confused her, and because th>hospital normally prescribes HALDOL for the confused elderlyI fully agree.  In addition, she proably should be examined by anothedoctor who can re-evaluate the need for the medications she is takingI can't remember the guidelines I either saw in a text or heard durina lecture, but any elderly adult who is receiving medications should havthe need for the drug re-evaluated regularly.  If her current physiciais unwilling to do this, find one who will.  Either check the phonebook for a physician who specializes in geriatric medicine or gerontology,or contact a physician referral line or the American Medical SocietyBy finding a geriatric specialist, he (she) will more likely be in tunwith the special needs of elderly adults and maybe can help