>  banschbach@vms.ocom.okstate.edu writes>>I don\'t like the term "quack" being applied to a licensed physician David>>Questionable conduct is more appropriately called unethical(in my opinion)>>>\t3. Using laetril to treat cancer patients when such treatment has>>\t   been shown to be ineffective and dangerous(cyanide release) by>>\t   the NCI>> Hmm.  This is certainly among the things I would refer to as quac> therapy and would tend to refer to any practitioner who prescribe> laetrile (whether licensed or not) as a quack.  There are unethica> behaviors (such as ordering unneccessary tests to increase fees> which I would not lable as quackish, but prescribing known ineffectiv> therapies seems to me to be one of the hallmarks of a quack> --> David RinOne of the responsibilities of a licensed physician is to read the medicalliterature to keep up with changes in medical practice.  All the clamorover laetril resulted in the NCI spending quite a bit of money on clinicaltrials which proved(to me anyway) that laetril was ineffective againstcancer.  A physician who continued to use it, when better, more effective,treatments are available, may deserve to be called a quack.  Anti-fungalsare in a different class.  The big question seems to be is it reasonable touse them in patients with GI distress or sinus problems that *could* be dueto candida blooms following the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics?  GordenRubenfeld, through e-mail, has assured me that most physicians recognizethe chance of candida blooms occuring after broad-spectrum antibiotic useand they therefore reinnoculate their patients with *good* bacteria torestore competetion for candida in the body.  I do not believe that this isyet a standard part of medical practice.  He deals with critical carepatients where fungal infection(systemic) is a real problem and justbecause he tries to keep *good* bacteria in his patients does not mean thatall physicians do this.  I think that aspergillis is more likely to befound in the sinus mucus membranes than is candida.  Women have been knownfor a very long time to suffer from candida blooms in the vagina and awomen is lucky to find a physician who is willing to treat the cause andnot give give her advise to use the OTC anti-fungal creams.  Since candidacolonizes primarily in the ano-rectal area, GI symptoms should be more commonthan vaginal problems after broad-spectrum antibiotic useThe problem we have here David is proof that GI discomfort can be caused bya candida bloom.  The arguement is that without proof, no action iswarrentedMedicine has not, and probalby never will be, practiced this way.  Therehas always been the use of conventional wisdom.  A very good example iskidney stones.  Conventional wisdom(because clinical trails have not beendone to come up with an effective prevention), was that restricitng theintake of calcium and oxalates was the best way to prevent kidney stonesfrom forming.  Clinical trials focused on drugs or ultrasonic blasts tobreakdown the stone once it formed.  Through the recent New England J ofMedicine article, we now know that conventional wisdom was wrong,increasing calcium intake is better at preventing stone formation than isrestricting calcium intakeThe conventional wisdom in animal husbandry has been that animals need tobe reinnoculated with *good* bacteria after coming off antibiotic therapyIf it makes sense for livestock, why doesn't it make sense for humansDavid?  We are not talking about a dangerous treatment(unless you consideryogurt dangerous).  If this were a standard part of medical practice, asGordon R. says it is, then the incidence of GI distress and vaginal yeastinfections should declineMarty B