Here is a press release from the American Federation of State,County and Municipal Employees Unions Point To Deadly Workplaces; AFSCME, Other UnionCommemorate Workers Memorial Da To: National Desk, Labor Write Contact: Janet Rivera of the American Federation of State, Countand Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO, 202-429-113   WASHINGTON, April 23 -- The American Federation of State,County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) and other unionof the AFL-CIO on Wednesday, April 28, will commemorate the fiftannual Workers Memorial Day -- a day to pay homage to the million workers who are killed, injured, or diseased on the job   This year, AFSCME will focus its Workers Memorial Day efforts athe dangerous environment in which corrections officers must workEarlier this month, an AFSCME corrections officer, RoberVallandingham, was killed by inmates who overtook the correctionfacility in Lucasville, Ohio   The law and order agenda of the 1980s has resulted in a steadincrease in the prison population for the past five years.  OJn. 1, 1992, the prison population was 709,587. Projectionshow a continued increase in the number of inmates, with aexpected prison population of 811,253 in 1994   The conditions which this burgeoning prison population hacreated for corrections officers is partially reflected in thnumber of assaults by inmates against staff.  Assaults againsstaff increased dramatically between 1987 and 1989, and remaihigh.  In 1987, there were 808 assaults by inmates against staffcompared to 9,961 such assaults in 1991   The increased number of inmates has brought on the dangeroucombination of overcrowding and understaffing.  For example in Ohiofficer-to-inmate ratio is 1 to 8.4 -- the second worst ratio ithe nation. The national average is 1 to 5.3.  Other health ansafety issues facing corrections officers include AIDS, HepatitiB, tuberculosis, stress, and chemical hazards   AFSCME has more than 50,000 members who work in the nation'federal, state and local correctional facilities   Correction officers are not alone in performing their jobs undelife-threatening conditions.  Every year, 10,000 American workerdie from job-related injuries, and tens of thousands more die frooccupational disease.  Public employees do some of the nation'most dangerous jobs. Perilous occupations include   -- Highway Workers - Highway workers are often injured an      frequently killed by moving traffic because work zones ar      not barricaded or don't have proper lighting   -- Health Care Workers - Hospitals have the highest number o      job-related injuries and illnesses of any private secto      employer and nursing homes ranked fifth.  There were mor      than 325,000 job-related illnesses and injuries in privat      sector hospitals in 1991, up almost 10 percent over th      previous year.  It is generally believed that health car      workers employed at public sector hospitals and nursing home      have a significantly higher rate of injuries and illnesse      than do their private sector counterparts.  Health and safet      issues facing health care workers include exposure t      tuberculosis and the HIV virus, back injuries, and hig      levels of stress   -- Social Workers - Social workers who work in mental healt      institutions are often the victims of assaults and      sometimes, fatal attacks.  For instance, last October, a ma      carrying a semiautomatic handgun walked into the Schuyle      County Social Services Building in Watkins Glenn, N.Y      and fatally shot social services workers, before turning th      gun on himself.  There are two basic problems.  First is       growing lack of support services for people who don't hav      the help they need.  Because workers are overworked, som      clients are not given the adequate amount of counselling      Such conditions may cause clients to become more frustrated      The "quality" of the clients is also becoming more violent      as more are moved out of the institutions   Nearly 2 million workers have been killed by workplace hazardsince OSHA was passed.  Moreover, as AFSCME President Gerald WMcEntee explains, OSHA does not provide workplace safetprotections for public employees   "More than 1,600 public employees are killed each year on thjob, yet 27 states still provide no federally-approved OSHcoverage for public employees," said McEntee.  "This, despite thfact that public employees -- highway workers, health care workerscorrections officers, to name but a few -- do some of the mosdangerous work in our society.  This year we are fighting fopassage of OSHA reform legislation to give all workers greaterights and protections, and finally guarantee all public employeesafe workplaces.  We need the public support to be successful.   Government workers suffer 25 percent more injuries than privatsector workers, and these injuries are almost 75 percent morsevere   Public employees were exempted from OSHA when the law was passein 1970 and today, public employees in more than half the statehave no OSHA coverage -30-Canada Remote Systems - Toronto, Ontari416-629-7000/629-704