hoss@panix.com  writes> hi all, Ive applied for the class of 93 at quite a number of schools (20> and have gotten 13 rejects, 4 interviews and 3 no responsesThree possible results after interview1) rejection outrigh2) acceptance outrigh3) the infamous 'wait list'...If you are on a 'wait list', your entrance into medical schoois dependent upon some other applicant withdrawing theiacceptance.  This can happen as late as day -1 of startinclasses. > Any one know when the heck these people send out their acceptance letters> According to the med school admissions book theyre supposed to send ou> the number of their class in acceptances by mid March. Whats going on... > am losing my sanity checking my mailbox every dayYou can always call the admissions office.  The secretarieshould have some idea of when a decision might be made on youapplication.  Be calm, respectful, and friendly; secretariehave more power than you might realize, and you never knowcould be the dean of admissions answering the phone> Also does anyone have some useful alternatives in case i dont get in, If you don't get in this year, sit down and re-evaluatyourself: your motives, desires, and goals that are directinyou into medicine; your academic and extracurriculaaccomplishments.  Make a decision about whether you *reallywant to be a medical doctor.  I had classmates who dropped ouin the first semester of med school because they found it wanot what they wanted to do; I have friends who applied fouyears in a row before they were accepted.  Medicine as career is a choice you must make for yourself; DON'T bpushed into it because of your parents/family/significanother. If you still want to be a medical doctor, determine how yocan improve your application.  A letter of recommendation froa professor who knows you well and can give an honest positivrecommendation is far better than one from a 'big-shot' famouprofessor who only vaguely remembers your face.  Also, don'be afraid to ask these people if they can give you an honesand positive recommendation; give them a chance to say 'nosorry' instead of the medical school saying 'no, sorry'.  have turned down writing recommendations for some studentbecause I did not know them well enough to make any meaningfucomments, and some because I honestly could not recommend theat that point. Rewrite your personal statement; take it by an Englisprofessor or some other friendly person with skill anexperience in writing and proof-reading and get theicriticism, both about what you are saying as well as how yosay itReview your academic accomplishments.  If your grades are pooin some area, don't be afraid to spend some time in furthecoursework.  Evidence of determined committment will helhere.  If you filled your pre-medicine curriculum with gucourses, it usually showsLook at your extracurricular involvements.  Participating ilocal philanthropic or service organizations is a plussubstantial leadership roles in an organization help alsoBeware of 'resume padding'; such things are not difficult tspot and weed outOverall, a clear conception of where you wish to head and whyou want to get there, combined with an honest self-appraisaof skills and aptitude, will be the best path to take iapplying to any program, medical or what-have-youGood luck with the process -- as Tom Petty says, 'the waitinis the hardest part', at least emotionally. :Bob Schmie