> UNLESS I plan on getting sick - I won't eat the stuff without m> Seldane.  And did I ever learn to read labels> - it might not please a medical researcher - but it pleased my ow> personal physician enough for him to give me allergy medicine-Allergy medicine, huh?  Is this just to get rid of the resultant migraine owhatever, or does it actually suppress allergic reactions? (i.e. like aantihistamine does?)  As far as doctors over here are concerned, if you slip uand eat something you're allergic to (even if they won't test you to tell yowhat to avoid) then tough; if a _cheap_ medicine will alleviate your symptomsthen fine, otherwise you just suffer.  One doctor did prescribe me imigran (costthe NHS #48 for 6 tablets) after having to rehydrate me because I'd been throwinup for four solid days and couldn't even drink water - but I got taken off iagain when I moved and had to change doctors.  Reasoning: they did not know whathe side-effects were because it was new.  OK, fine - but it has passed thsafety tests to get on the prescription list, and anyway I was prepared to takthe risk to have quality of life now.  The only alternatives I have is to get iprescribed privately, which I cannot afford, or to pay a private allergspecialist to test me and tell me what to avoid.  I am fairly certain I aallergic to more than one chemical additive, as a lot of things I can't eat havnothing in common except things I know are safe, so testing myself isn't reallan option; there are too many permutations> I'm not saying I NEVER consume ANYTHING with MSG.  I've noticed that > have a certain tolerance level - like a (small) bag of bbq chips onc> a month or so it not a problem - but that same bag of chips wil> bother me if I also had chicken bouillon yesterday and lunch at one o> the Chinese restaurants the day before. Yes, I've noticed that - and I can work it up by eating just under the toleranclevel fairly regularly.  If I don't eat anything except home cooking for a montor so I lose it and have to work it up from scratch... a bad experience.  Now know what the early-warning symptoms are, though, I can usually tell whether I aallergic to food before I've eaten too much of it... usually..