>  banschbach@vms.ocom.okstate.edu writes>>oxygen(just like it does in the vagina).  As much stuff as there is in the>>lay press about L. acidophilus and vaginal yeast infections, I'm really>>amazed that someone has not done a clinical trial yet to check it out>> I've mentioned this study a couple of times now: Ingestion of yogur> containing Lactobacillus acidophilus as prophylaxis for candida> vaginitis, Annals of Internal Medicine, 3/1/92 116(5):353-7.  Do yo> have a problem with the study because they used yogurt rather tha> capsules of lactobacillus (even though it had positive results)>> The study was a crossover trial of daily ingestion of 8 ounces o> yogurt.  There was a marked decrease in infections while women wer> ingesting the yogurt.  Problems with the study included very smal> numbers (33 patients enrolled) and many protocol violations (onl> 21 patients were analyzed).  Still, the difference in rates of infectio> between the two groups was so large that the study remains fairl> believable> --> David RinDavid, this study looks like a good one.  Gordon Rubenfeld did a Medlinesearch and also sent me the same reference through e-mail.  Sincecommercial yogurt does not always have a good Lactobacillus a. orbulgaricus culture, a negative finding would not have been too informativeThis is often the reason why Lactobacillus acidophilus tablets arerecommended rather than yogurtI guess the next question is why would this introduction of "good" bacteriaback into the gut decrease the incidence of vaginal candida blooms if theanus was not serving as a candida reservoir(a fact that Gordon R. vehementdenys)?  I see two possible theories.  One, the L. acidophilus, which is afacultatively anaerobic bacterium, could make it through the gut andcolonize the rectal area to overgrow the candida.  This would not explainthe reoccurance of candida blooms in the vagina after the yogurt ingestionwas stopped though.  The other is that the additional bacteria in theintestinal tract remove most of the glucose from the feces and candidalooses it's major food sourceGetting Lactobacillus acidophilus to colonize the vaginal tract(where it isnormally found) would have a much better effect on the recurrance of vaginalyeast blooms though.  An acetic acid, Lactobacillus acidophilus douche hasbeen used to get this effect but I've not seen any such treatment reported inthe medical literature.  This would be an example of physicians conductingtheir own clinical trials to try to come up with treatments that help theirpatients.  When this is done in private practice, the results are rarely, ifever published.  It was the hallmark of medicine until the modern ageemerged with clinical trials.  It really raises a big question.  Does themedical profession cast out the adventerous few who try new treatments tohelp patients or does it look the other wayThis particular issue is really a very simple one since no real dangeroustherapy is involved(even the anti-fungals are not all that dangerous).  Butthere are some areas(like EDTA chelation therapy), where the fire is prettyhot and somebody could get burned.  It's really tough.  Do I follow onlywell established protocols and then give up if they don't work that well ordo it try something that looks like it will work but hasn't been proven towork yetMy stand is to consider other treatment possibilities, especially if theyinvolve little or no risk to the patient.  Getting good bacteria back intothe gut after antibiotic treatment is one treatment possibility.  The otheris getting L. acidophilus into the vaginal tract of a woman who is having aproblem with recurring yeast infectionsMarty B