ohandley@betsy.gsfc.nasa.gov wrote>> [summarizedA person with a Schatzki's ring (a membrane partially blocking theespphagus) has worsening dysphagia (difficulty swallowing) and thedoctor proposes dilation by balloow or bougie (using an inflatablballoon to rupture the ring or a rubber hose to push through it. Question: is balloon dilation safe, common, and indicated?  It soundpretty invasive> [end summaryYes, this is a common and safe procedure.  The majority of Schatzki'rings described by x-ray, however, wnd up being due to inflammatioinstead of the congenital Schatzki's ring.  Occassionally a cancemasquerades as a ring.  You should have the endoscopy to see if iis due to the heartburn, and if so, you will need treatment for thheartburn ong term.  The balloon dilation is an alternative to cuttinopen your chest and cutting out a section of the esophagus, so dilatiois not at all invasive, considering the alternative. > The second issue: [summarized]  He has had extra heartbeats for the pas3 to 4 years, and once was symptomatic from them, with somlightheadednessHe is young, (30-ish), thin and in goo> health (recent bloodtests were all normal), and do not smoke, use drugs o> caffeine, etc. I\'m willing to accept the extra beats as "normal", but don\'> want to ignore them if they might be some kind of warning symptom. The numbe> of PVC's seems to increase throughout the day, and with exercise (or somethin> as simple as climbing some stairs). Also, if I get up after sitting or lyin> down for a while, I tend to get a couple of extra beats. Could they possibl> be related to the esophagous problems? Both seemed to develop at about th> same timeI' not an expert on heart problems, but PVC's are common and have beeovertreated in the past.  My personal experience, and I have the samehistory an build you do (related to the heart, that is), is that my PVC'come and go, with some months causing anxiety.  Taking on more fluidseems to help, and they seem worse in the summer.  Remember that a slowheart rate will allow more PVC's to be apparent, so perhaps it is anindication of a healthy cardiac system (but ask an expert about thalast point, especiallyGood luck, hope we don't die of arrhythmias.  (God, what a happy thoughtSteve Hollan