\tFor a very long time I've had a problem with feeling really awfuwhen I try to get up in the morning.  My sleep latency at night is alspretty long,  ranging from 30 min to an hour.  I get about 7 hours obedtime (maybe 6 of actual sleep) a night and more on the weekends.  will spend two or three hours laying in bed after this if I can,  becausI feel so tired when I wake up,  even more tired than I was when went to bed,  which is usually too tired to work\tAnyway,  I recently had a really bad flu,  so I called a friend tget me some cough syrup with both an expectorant and a nasal decongestantbut he got Vicks formula 44M which has everything but an expectorant.  SI used that anyway,  and the three nights I used it,  I fell asleep rapidland felt that I got really good quality sleep -- that is,  I actuallfelt refreshed the next morning\tSo,  I am now trying to look into,  both in the literature anexperimentally,  the use of antihistamines as sleep aids,  since I apresuming that it was the antihistamine that caused the effect.  Thantihistamine in Vicks formula 44 is Chloriphenamine maleate,  so I boughsome generic tablets of that,  and tried one last night and didn'notice any improvement.  I might try one with a little alcohol (abou1 beer) to see if it is a synergism effect.  Also,  library researcseems to show that Benadryl is the antihistamine with the strongessedative effect of what is availible OTC.  So I might also buy a generiform of that and try that;  the PDR seems to suggest that 50 mg is a goodosage level to try\tFor other medical information,  I have allergies but rarely havan allergic reaction living in New Mexico.  I also have chronically dreyes,  which get horrible if I try to use most underarm deoderants.  I diguess that my problem might be caused by hypoglycemia,  so I made somchanges in my diet consistent with that,  and it didn't help,  so went back to a normal diet (Pretty diverse,  also taking vitamin supplements\tAnyway,  I am looking for advice for the use oantihistamines as sleep aids,  and if there are any dangers of such us(Seems safe to me since they are used chronically for allergies bmillions).  I don't want to try BZs,  because BZ addiction seems to ba serious threat,  and from what I hear,  BZ sleep quality is not goodwhereas antihistamine sleep quality seems to be better for me.  I havtried some dietary tryptophan loading stuff,  and that also seems tlower sleep quality,  I seem to wake up around 4:00 or so and be in somkind of mental haze until 7:00 or 8:00.  Also,  I would be interested iany other advice for helping my problem.  (Although I've already triemany of the non-pharmacological solutions