I've sent Gordon R. my posts on protein, vitamin C and vitamin A prior toposting on internet as a professional courtesy.  Somehow I've managed todelete my vitamin A post from my text file.  Gordon R. had promised to sendit back to me but he's pretty mad at me right now so I'll just retype itSince digging through all my references is very time consuming(took me allday for that PMS post), I'm not going to cite any references(Gordon R. hasthem).  I'm going to include some of the material from Weinsier andMorgan's new Nutrition textbook(which was not in my original material) topoint out that what I'm going to say has some support in the medicalcommunityDiet has been know to affect the immune system of man for a very, very longtime.  Protein has always had the biggest role in infection and I'vealready covered the role of protein in protecting you against infectionNow I'm going to hit what I consider to be the most important nutrient inthe U.S. as far as infection is concerned(vitamin A)When vitamin A was originally discovered, it was commonly referred to asthe anti-infection vitamin.  Many people(Linus Pauling being one) havedecided to take this title away from vitamin A and give it to vitamin (which I've already covered).  Big mistake(in my opinion).  Vitamin A isalso getting a reputation as an anti-cancer vitamin(with good reason)The NCI currently has numerous clinical trials in progress to see ifvitamin A can not only prevent cancer but cure it as well.  It's role inboth cancer and infection is almost identical(but not quite)Vitamin A comes in two completely different forms(retinol andbeta-carotene).  Retinol is the animal form and it's toxic, beta-caroteneis the plant form and it's completely nontoxic.  Both retinol and betacarotene display good absorption in the human gut if bile is presen(60-80%).  The liver stores all of your retinol and doles it out for othertissues to use by synthesizing retinol binding protein(RBP).  A normal humanadult liver should have 500,000IU to 1,000,000IU of retinol stored.  Weare born with 10,000IU in our liver.  U.S. autopsy has shown that about30% of Americans die with the same(or less) amount of vitamin A as theywere born with.  If you don't believe that nutritional reserves(like thatof retinol in the liver) are important, then this low vitamin A reserve isnot going to affect you.  But if you believe(like I do) that the nutrientreserves are important, then there is a problem with vitamin A in the U.SThe U.S. RDA for vitamin A in an adult male is 1,000 RE or 5,000IU ofvitamin A.  For adult feamles its 800 RE or 4,000IU of vitamin A.  Dietsurveys show that most Americans are getting this amount of vitamin (either retinol or Beta-carotene) from their diet.  But the NRC(NationalResearch Council) was going to release a new RDA table in 1985 that had theRDA for both vitamin A and vitamin C raised(C to 90mg per day and A to7,500IU per day for adult males).  That report and it's recommendations waskilled.  Why? Concern over the increasing supplementation was the mainreason.  RDAs are set to prevent clinical disease, not to keep nutrientreserves full.  Many scientist in the U.S. feel that the time has come tomove away from the prevention of clinical pathology concept and movetowards the promotion of optimum health concept, especially since we havesome very good data now that show that nutrient reserves are extremelyimportant during periods of stress.  The nutritonal concervatives won thatbattle and a new group of scientist were collected to come out with the1989 RDA list which lowered the RDA for several nutrients and moved thedietary guidelines back to where they were when we first started in the1940's(get enough to prevent clinical pathology, but not enough to fillthe reserves)We know from autopsy that only about 10% of Americans have a liver with anormal vitamin A reserve(500,000IU to 1,000,000IU).  I preach nutrientreserves to my students and tell them to measure them in their patientsBut for vitamin A, only a liver biopsy(or autopsy data) will tell you howmuch somebody has stored.  We can tell very easily if someone hasoverfilled his or her liver with vitamin A by measuring the serium retinollevel(levels above 450ug/dl are highly suggestive that you have filled yourliver with vitamin A and it's time to stop taking retinol).  The normalrange of serum retinol will be 20-100ug/dl.  Hypervitaminosis A isdiagnosed with a serum retinol level of 2,000ug/dl or higher(Interpretationof Diagnostic Test, Wallach, M.D., a Little Brown Series book).  This levelof vitamin A in blood means that medical attention is necessary due tovitamin A toxicity.  Weinsier and Morgan take a much more conservativeapproach to vitamin A toxicity than does Wallach, as you will see later inthis post.  Between 450ug/dl and 2,000ug/dl you should have plentyof warning that it's time to eliminate the retinol from your diet(headache,redness of the skin, hair loss, joint pain)I tell all my students that will use vitamin A in their practice that theyhad better monitor the serum retinol level and stop when there are clearsigns that the liver is full.  You will never really know if the patientneeds the vitamin A(because you can not measure the pool in liver) but youwill always know when it's time to stop(just like in those vitamin A forPMS studies)Beta-carotene can be taken to fill up your liver with retinol and you willnever have to worry about toxicity because the conversion of beta-carotene toretinol that occurs in both your gut and your liver will slow down(stops in theliver and slows down in the gut) when your liver is full of retinol.  Buttaking Beta-carotene as the source of retinol takes a very long time tofill the liver up(I've seen estimates of 20-30 years) if you are in the 30%that only has as much as you were born with in your liver(10,000IU).  Oneother problem with beta-carotene, if you have a zinc deficit, you will notconvert as much beta-carotene to retinol in the gut or the liver because theenxzyme that does this conversion requires zinc.  In addition, the release ofretinol from the liver is a zinc dependent process so a zinc deficit willcause a vitamin A deficit even if your liver has plenty of vitamin ANow what does vitamin A do in cancer and infection protection?  The bodyuses vitamin A(retinol) for many different things.  Vision(the first to benailed down and where you see overt clinical pathology) uses the aldehyd(retinal) and alcohol(retinol) form of vitamin A.  Reproduction uses theretinol form  and some retinal.  Infection and cancer protection usesretinoic acid.  How do you convert retinol(which your white blood cellsand the mucosal cells get from blood) to retinoic acid?  You use enzymes,one of which requires vitamin C(this is why Pauling has tried to pull thetitle of anti-infection vitamin away from vitamin A).  Vitamin C does playa role in infection(interferon production for example) but it's biggest roleis the conversion of retinol to retinoic acid.  If you increase your intakeof vitamin C, you will increase your formation of retinoic acid.  Butretinoic acid can not be converted back to retinol(as retinal can) and onceit's formed, it's used and then lost to the body.  This is why the 1985 NRCgroup wanted to increase both vitamin C and vitamin A RDA'sMost people taking large amounts of vitamin C really think that they arehelping themselves.  If they don't have much vitamin A in their liver andthey are not also increasing their intake of vitamin A, they actually dothemselves more harm than goodRetinoic acid functions in white blood cells to promote antibody formationIn the mucus membrane, it is the main factor in promoting good mucusproduction and a good epithelial cell barrier to prevent infectious agents fromentering the blood system.  The mucus membrane is referred to as the "firstline" defense against infection.  For cancer, retinoic acid has been shownto act as a cell brake(it counteracts the effect of cell promoters whichstimulate cells to divide).  Cancer has two distinct steps, DNA alterationand cell promotion.  For cells that normally divide all the time, promotersare not that important.  But for lung and breast tissue which does notnormally divide, promoters are real important in the malignant processThis is the major reason why the NCI has so many different clinical trialsin progress using retinol and/or beta-caroteneChronic infection(irritation) of the mucus membranes is a signal thatvitamin A may not be adequate.  I tell my students that any patient whowalks into their office with a complaint of chronic infection has to beworked up for vitamin A(along with the other factors that medicine alreadyhas on it's list of causes for chronic infection).  I drive this home in mycourse at the Osteopathic College in Tulsa, when I teach at the allopathicmedical school in Tulsa(OU's branch campus) and when I give CME lecturesDark adaptation is the best clinical test for vitamin A status since nightvision is impacted when liver reverves drop to 50,000IU of retinol.  Theserum level of retinol can also be used, but it does not drop until liverreserves drop below 10,000 to 20,000IU.  Asking a patient if they havetrouble seeing at night is a good initial screen(if cataracts are ruledout).  In one study done on U.S. Spanish-Americans where serum retinol levelswere measured, 25% of the sample population had a serum retinol level below20ug/dlAs more studies are done on serum retinol levels in population groups ofthe U.S. that have had a history of high infection rates, we will probablysee a much stonger correlation between infection incidence rates and lowserum retinol levelsWhat do Weinsier and Morgan have to say about vitamin A?  Here are excerptfrom their bookVitamin A functions in vision in the forrm of retinol, it is necessay forgrowth and differentation of epithelial tissue, and is required forreproduction, embryonic development, and bone growth.  Protein-caloriemalnutrition and zinc deficiency may impair the absorption, transport, andmetabolism of vitamin A.  Retinaldehyde is converted to retinoic acid,which has biological activity in growth and in cell diferentiation but notin reproduction or vision.  The most common procedure to evaluate vitamin Astatus is to measure the retinol level in plasma or serum.  The normalrange for vitamin A content for a child is 20 to 90ug/dl.  Lower values areindicators of deficiency or depleted body stores.  Serum levels greaterthan 100ug/dl are indicative of toxic levels of vitamin A.  Dark adaptationtests and electroretinogram measurements are also useful but difficult toperform on young children.  Rapidly proliferating tissues are sensitive tovitamin A deficiency and may revert to an undifferentiated state.  Thebronchorespiratory tract, skin, genitourinary system, gastrointestinaltract and sweat glands are adversely affected.  A daily intake of more than7.5mg(about 37,000IU) of retinol is not advised and chronic use of amountsover 20mg(100,000IU) can result in a dry and itching skin, desquamation,erythematous dermatitis, hair loss, joint pain, chapped lips, hyperostoi(bony depositis), headaches, anorexia, edema and fatigue. They recommend 30mg of retinol via IM injection in children for vitamin Adeficiency but do not discuss treatment for adults.  Their toxic serum retinollevel is very conservative.  I recommend that my students try 25,000IU inadults that are having problems with chronic infection.  They have to ruleout a zinc deficit first by getting an RBC zinc run(or if their clinicallab can't run it, I tell them to do what Weinsier and Morgan suggest, givethem the zinc along with the vitamin A.  At 25,000IU per day, toxicityshould not be a problem and you will not have to worry about pulling thepatient into the office on a regular basis to run a serum retinolBoth Elaine and Jon found doctors who used a much higher dose of vitamin ARecall that the PMS papers were using 100,000IU to 200,000IU of vitamin AI don't suggest that my students use these high doses.  If you wanted tofill the liver up fast(as part of a clinical trial) and were monitoring theserum retinol level, then you would be okay.  But my knowledge of thevitamin A literature suggests to me that 25,000IU for patients with ademonstrated vitamin A deficit(dark adapatation test or serum retinol) willprovide a good and steady improvement(as long as zinc and vitamin C statusare good) without having to worry about toxicity.  If they want to get moreagressive, fine if they follow my advise to check the serum retinol.  Butvitamin A(retinol) should never be given in high dose to women who couldbecome pregnant since vitamin A shows teratogenicity towards the humanfetus.  The dose needed to show this effect on the developing fetus is18,000IU of retinol per day.  Beta-carotene will never have this effect onthe human fetusCould just taking Beta-carotene instead of retinol supplements help?  Yesbut the effect will take a long time to develop.  My advise is to useretinol to fill the liver up and then switch to beta-carotene to keep itfull.  Vitamin A is probably one nutrient that is better off left toprescription by doctors.  But when we have the M.D.'s in this newsgroupjumping all over me and other doctors that propose the use of vitamin Asupplements for treating patients with chronic sinus and GI distress, Ithink that the most prudent option is to keep vitamin A in the OTC marketbut require manufactors to provide package inserts to educate the generalpublic about the dangers of vitamin A supplementationMarty B