>> Not everything that goes in comes out, and personaly I don't mind givin>> my body a hand once in a while>>>> Just my experience>>>> George Paa>> I've got a very nice collection of historical books on medical quackery> and on the topic of massage this is a recurring theme.  Ordinary massag> is intended to make a person feel better, especially if they have muscula> or joint problems.  But -- like chiropracty -- there are some practitioner> who take the technique to a far extreme, invoking what seems to me to b> quack science to justify their technique>> In the case of massage, there is a technique called "deep abdominal massage> in which the masseur is literally attempting to massage the intestines> The notion is that undigested food adheres to the inner surface of th> intestines and putrifies, releasing poisons which cause various diseas> syndromes.  By this vigorous and painful procedure, it is alleged tha> these deposits can be loosened up and passed out>> I just can't believe this idea has any truth behind it!  The human intestin> is not a New York City sewer pipe!  And even if it were, you eat half o> a small box of Triscuits, and there ain't gonna be nothin' sticking to th> inner surface of your intestine  :-Mark, this is the most reasonable post that I've seen in Sci. Med. on thetopic of Colonic Flushing.  I'm in a profession that uses manipulation(avery refined form of massage) to treat various human diseases.  Provingthat manipulation works has been extremely difficult(as the MD's delight inpointing out).  The Osteopathic Profession seems to be making betterprogress than the chiropractors in proving(scientifically) that theirtechingues work.  The JAOA recently had a study on the use of manipulationto relieve mensrual cramps in women with results that were as good orbetter than drug treatment(using physiological measurements, and not justthe woman's preception of improvement).  This study was hailed by the JAOAeditors as the turning point in the profession's long struggle to proveitself to the medical communityI'm currently trying to get the AOA(American Osteopathic Association) whichhas supported most of the Osteopathic research in the U.S. to also supportnutrition education and research.  I've pointed out, in a grant proposal,that the founder of Osteopathic Medicine(A.T. Still) embraced both diet andmanipulation to set himself apart from the MD's of his time who were pushingonly drugs(Still was himself an MD who got real dissillusioned with drugsduring his service in the Civil War).  He decided that there had to be abetter way to treat human disease since he saw the cure(drugs) as beingworse than the disease.  Through his many years of study of the human body,he developed his manipulation techniques that he then taught to hisstudents in the U.S's first Osteopathic Medical school.  We now have 17Still used manipulation to treat(and also diagnose) human disease but heused diet to prevent human disease.  I'm trying to get the OsteopathicProfession to return to it's roots and beat the MD's to the punch(so tospeak).  Both DO's and MD's in current medical practice have very littleunderstanding of how diet affects human health.  This has to changeMartin Banschbach, Ph.DProfessor of Biochemistry and ChairmaDepartment of Biochemistry and MicrobiologOSU COllege of Osteopathic Medicin"You are what you eat."