> Our 20-month son has started falling sick quite often every since h> started going to day care.  He was at home for the first year and he di> not fall sick even once.  Now it seems like he has some sort of cold o> flu pretty much once a month.  Most of the time the cold leads to an ea> infection as well, with the result that he ends up being on antibiotic> 3 weeks out of 4.  I know kids in day care fall sick more often, but w> are beginning to wonder how often "more often" really is, whether ou> son is more susceptible or has lower immunity than average...> Are there any studies that can help answer some of these questionsWhen kids stayed in the home until kindergarden or 1st grade, infectionincidence was much lower because exposure was lower.  Some studies suggestthat early exposure to various infectious diseases is probably beneficialbecause exposure as an adult carries much more risk of morbitity andmortality(mumps, measles. etc.)> -- How often do kids in their first, second and third years fall sick> How often do they get colds, flus, ear infections?  Is there any data o> home care vs. day careDaycare will always carry a higher exposure risk than home care> -- Does being sick "build immunity" (leading to less illness later)> does it make kids "weaker" (leading to more illness later), or does i> not have any long term effectExposure to infectious organisms does build immunity.  But many virusesmutate and reexposure to the new strain requires another immune responsenew antibody production).  In addition, antibody levels tend to declinewith time and re-innoculation is needed to keep the antibody levels highChronic overstimulation of the immune response can lead to immunosupressionbut this is rare and very unlikely to occur in children> -- Does taking antibiotics on a regular basis have any negative lon> term effectsYes, chronic use of antibiotics can have an adverse effect on the goodbacteria that are supposed to be present in and on the body.  Health effectsof this depletion of the good bacteria is a very hotly debated topic in themedical community with most physicians seeming to discount any health effectsof chronic antibiotic use( a view that I do not support)> -- How does one tell if a child is more susceptible to illness tha> normal, and what does one do about itChronic infection in an adult or a child needs to be worked up( in myopinion).  But most physicians feel that chronic infection in a child isnormal because of both exposure and lack of prior immunity to manyinfectious diseases.  I do not share this view and there are somephysicians who also suspect that diet plays a big role in infectionfrequency and severity.  Exposure to an infectious agent does not have toresult in a severe infection.  A strong immune response can minimize thelength of time needed to deal with the infection as well as the symptomsassociated with the infection> -- Is there any way to build immunity and resistanceThere are five major nutrients that are responsible for a good strongimmune response to infectious agents.  They are: protein, vitamin C,vitamin A, iron and zinc.  The American diet is not low in protein so thisis rarely a problem.  But vitamin A, vitamin C, iron and zinc are often lowand this lack of an adequate pool(nutrient reserve) can impair the immuneresponse.  Iron is know to be low in most kids(as is vitamin A).  There aredistinct biochemical tests that can be run to check the status of each ofthese nutrients in a patient who is having a problem with chronic severeinfection.  Serum ferritin for iron status, dark adaptation for vitamin Astatus, red blood cell zinc for zinc status and leckocyte ascorbate forvitamin C status.  I have attempted to work up posts on these fivenutrients and their role in infection for this news group as well as theothers that I participate in.  I can e-mail you what I've worked up so farBut my best advice to you is to try to find a physician who recognizes thecritical role that diet plays in the human immune response.  You may alsobe able to get help from a nutritionist.  Anyone can call themselves anutritionist so you have to be very carefull.  You want to find someonelike myself) who has had some formal training and education in nutritionMany Ph.D. programs in the U.S. now offer degrees in Nutrition and that'swhat you need to look for.  Some dieticians will also call themselvesnutritionists but most dieticians have not had the biochemical trainingneeded to run specialized nutritional assessment tests.  They are very goodfor getting general dietary advice from however> Any data, information or advice relating to this would be muc> appreciated.  Thanks a lot>> AshwinMartin Banschbach, Ph.DGraduate degree in Biochemistry and Nutrition from VPand developer of a course on human nutrition for medical student